species in all different light conditions decreased with time irrespective of PAR or time of
day (Figure 14 a). The exceptions to this decreasing trend are in PW and PS.
Measurements ofc do not have a decreasing trend over time as the absorption
spectra do. Instead, on average, c changes over the time of day inversely with respect
to expected daylight; it appears to be correlate with time of day, not PAR (Figure 14 b)
(Table 4). For combined timeseries of Dunalliela this trend is larger than two
standard deviations. For Phaeodactylum the trend is not outside one standard deviation.
(Figure 15).
Discussion
A similar diel cycle in fluorescence is observed in cultures and in the field. In the
cultures chlorophyll does not oscillate over the day as fluorescence does. This supports
the hypothesis that diel variations are primarily due to changes in phytoplankton
physiology, not growth, grazing or mixing.
Normalized fluorescence varies inversely to PAR, regardless of time of day. This
suggests the cycle in fluorescence is related to PAR, not circadian rhythms. The
observation that f“ takes an average of 20 minutes to adapt to changes in PAR, means
a timeseries of f* lags approximately 20 minutes behind a timeseries of PAR. Thus,
the correlation between f* and PAR can be made tighter by taking a running average of
PAR over 20 minutes and shifting PAR ahead in time by 20 minutes. Qualitatively
correcting for this lag time makes a small but noticable improvement in the uncertainty of
f* as a function of PAR (Figure 4)
These data provide the basis for an empirical way to measure mean fluorescence
from instantaneous fluorescence
corrected f = (.0005)*(shifted and smoothed PAR)"(mean f) + f
This is mathematically equivalent to adding a constant fraction of the irradiance peaks to
the fluorescence troughs in a time series of f*. The coefficient .0005 comes from the slope
of f* vs PAR in situ (Figure 4). This coefficient was only qualitatively determined. A
statistically derrived higher order fit to Figure 4 may provide a better correction
algorithm. The mean f must be included in the correction because the magnitued of the
in situ diel oscillations varies directly with the mean (Figure 3). It should be noted that
this is just a step in the direction of a real-time empirical correction, because this model
requires the time averaged f. Yet this correction tightens the relationship between f and
mean f by a factor of 2 (Figure 16).
