correlate with chlorophyll (Chavez 1991). This relationship is apparent in cloudy days as
the fluorescence is higher than on sunny days. Sometimes the fluorescence cycle is
perturbed for one or more days after a cloudy day regardless of PAR. (Figure 2)
The beam attenuation increased during the spring bloom, yet it was also high in
January and February. The daily cycles in care less consistent than the fcycles, c
oscillates over the course of the day, and during the bloom the daily variations are larger.
yet they are not as clearly related to PAR as fis. (Figure 2)
Ten different time series were made with cultures: Dunalliela in the dark (DD).
incubator (DI, windowsill (DW), sunlight (DS); Phaeodactylum: (PD), (PW), (PD.
and (PS); and Amphidinium: (AD), and (Al) (Table 3) (Figures 5 to 11).
The cultures grew at different rates under each condition. In general, chlorophyll
concentration grew at an exponential rate when cultures were exposed to light, and not at
all when they were kept dark. The rate of growth was not proportional to light intensity
The best environment for Dunalliela was the window sill, and Phaeodactylum grew
quickest in the incubator. Amphidinium died in the direct sunlight, and grew best in thi
incubator. These rates may be related to the change in fluorescence on the days after a
cloudy day
Normalized fluorescence (f*) was constant for DD, PD, AD, DI, AI, There is a
small change in f* (inverse to PAR) in PI, PW, and DW. There is a clear inverse
relationship between f“ and PAR for DS and PS. Raw f correlated well with chlorophyl
for specemins in the dark and in the incubator, but not for samples in the sun (Figure 12).
f* for Dunalliela = .013 volts/ (ug chl/1) when it is dark adapted (i.e. when the f
has adapted to dark conditions). f* for phaodactylum = 035 volts when it is dark
adapted. It took 20 minutes for Dunalliela and 30 minutes for Phaodactylum to adapt to
changes in PAR (Figure 13).
The PS f* timeseries is more of a square shape than DS. This observation, and
the fact that the PI f“ timeseries changed with PAR, while the DI timeseries did not.
suggest different species have different sensitivities to PAR and that the fluorescence
response to PAR can be saturated
The normalized absorbtion spectra for each species had charactaristic shapes. The
spectrum for Dunalliela is similar to Phaeodactylum and Amphidinium except that it is
higher at the longer wavelenths. This offset appears in the c'spectrum as well. This is
consistent with the observation that Dunalliela appears green to the human eve and
Amphidinium and Phaeodactylum appear red-brown. Absorbtion spectra from all
