Chlorophyll concentration was quantified using acetone extractions and a Turner
fluorometer (Holm Hansen et al. 1965). Absorption was measured with a 10 cm cuvette
and a diffusing plate close to the detector of a diode array spectrophotometer (Shibada
1954; Mitchell 1988). Attenuation was measured using a 1 cm cuvette far from the
detector (Bricaud 1983). Fluorescence was measured using a Sea Tech strobe stimulated
fluorometer. PAR was measured with a photodiode callibrated to detect quanta of light.
Over a 48 hour time series, fluorescence was measured 22 times, chlorophyll was
measured 11 times, and spectra were measured 5 times. The sampeling rate was not
constant.
Fluorescence, absorbtion and attenuation were normalized to chlorophyll and
analyzed on a UNIX workstation. The spectra were smoothed and integrated.
A Sea Tech fluorometer and a Sea Tech transmissometer have been recording data
at 15 minute intervals from a mooring in Moneterey Bay since January 16, 1992. The
fluorometer is the same instrument as used with the cultures. The transmissometer
opperates at 660 nm and returns a voltage. Voltage is converted into beam c by the
following equation:
C =-4*log(VDC/5)
The mooring also has a PAR sensor which samples every 10 minutes. However, there is
no instrument to measure chlorophyll on the mooring.
Results:
The mooring fluorometer shows long term (3- 15 day) events which are
hypothesized to represent spring phytoplankton blooms. (Figure 1) There is a short
term (1 day) signal superimposed on this signal. (Figure 2). The diel cycle has a
maximum at night (usually either one hour after sun set or one hour before sunrise) and a
minimum near noon.
The amplitude of the diel cycle correlates with the mean fluorescence value; when
the mean signal is high, the variations (the difference between daily maximum and
minimum) are large e.g. the value of the mean correlates with the envelope of the raw -
mean timeseries (Figure 3). The minimum value is consistently half the maximum value
for each day (+- 10%). This is true even when the daily oscillations grow larger during
the phytoplankton bloomes e.g. the envelope for the raw/mean time series is nearly
constant (Figure 3)
The raw/mean fluorescence timeseries has an inverse functional relationship with
PAR both within days and between days (Figure 4). The raw/mean timeseries is
hypothesized to represent f* in situ, because mean fluorescence has been shown to
