Thus, changes in fluorescence must be correlated with changes in absorption and
photosynthesis (Gentry et al 1989; Kolber et. al. 1990; Falkowski et al 1986, 1988;
Mauzerall 1972; Bannister and Weidmann 1984)
The emitted photon has a discrete wavelength which depends on the available
quantum states of the pigment molecules. The most intense fluorescence emission from
phytoplankton is at 685 nm, corresponding to the Stokes shifted decay of an electron
excited by a 670 nm photon - right in the middle of a peak in the absorption spectra of
Chl.
Beam attenuation is a measure of how many photons starting out toward a target do
not make it there. Attenuated light is either absorbed or scattered. Thus, beam attenuation
is the sum of absorption and scattering (Table 1)
c =a+b
If one could collect all the scattered and unattenuated light that passed through sample, one
could measure of absorption. Similarly, if one excluded all scattered light, one can
measure beam attenuation. The spectrophotometer measures all of a and part of b,
because it collects some but not all of the scattered light.
Measured absorption = a + x*b where Oxx1.
If all of the scattered light is collected, x = 1; if none of the scattered light is collected,x -
0. x depends on the volume scattering cross section and the geometry of the detector
(Bricaud 1983; Roach 1974). The Shibada technique for measureing absorption with a
spectrophotometer uses a diffusing plate to redirect forward scattered light. (Mitchell and
Kiefer 1987; Shibada 1954; ) Approximate attenuation can be measured by positioning
the sample far from the detector so that the apperture eclipses most of the scattered light. If
a and c are measured, b is known as well. (Keifer pers. comm.; Chavez pers. comm.)
a and b depend on phytoplankton physiology: Changes in absorption indicate
changes in pigment concentration, quantum state, and package effect. Changes in
scattering evidence changes in particle size, density, and index of refraction.
Materials and Methods:
Dunalliela , Phaeodactylum , and Amphidinium were grown in sterile enriched
sea water. Cultures in their exponential phase were subjected to four different lighting
conditions (Table 2). To assess the relationship between phytoplankton populations and
optical phenomena, five properties were measured: Chlorophyll a (hereafter referd to
simply as chlorophyll). fluorescence, attenuation, absorption and PAR.
