High attenuation in the bay during January and Feburary is hypothesized to result
from suspended sediment load, not phytoplankton, because it does not correlate with the
increase in mean fluorescence, the increase in amplitude of diel fluorescence changes, or
the increase in amplitude of diel transmissivity changes. This is plausable because Winter
is the stormy season in Monetery Bay, and more turbulent waters suspend more sediment.
However, the lack of large diel cycles in attenuation does not necessacerily indicate lack
of phytoplankton because, in the cultures Dunalliela exhibited diel changes in attenuation
while Phaodactylum did not.
In the cultures a* did not change with light adaptation. Thus, E(absorbed) for a
constant amount of PAR (e.g. the fluorometer strobe light) did not change. But
E(fluoresced) did change with light adaptation. Thus, by concervation of energy, a
change in the efficiency of photosynthesis (photons used for photosynthesis/ photons
absorbed) must account for the changes in fluorescence. The changes in a* were two
orders of magnitude smaller than the changes in c*.
c* did change with a circadian rhythm. c* varies inversely to expected PAR (not
actual PAR) in Dunalliela but not significantly in Phaeodactylum. By inference
(because c= a + b) b* also changes inversely to expected PAR. Thus, cell swelling,
change in refractive index or cell division (change from fewer larger cells to more smaller
cells) might explain the change in beam attenuation, because these are the factors that
affect b“. Further, pigment density, quantum state of the pigments, and optical depth of
the phytoplankton cannot be the factors that affect the diel cycle in c*, because thier net
affect would have affected a* on a diel pattern.
However, a* did change over time, though not with a diel cycle. a* decreased;
i.e.: the observed percent change in a is less than the percent change in chl at each
successive measurement in the experiment regardless of PAR or time of day.
(al - a2)a (cl-c2)c
Three working hypotheses may explain how a* decreases over time. 1) some absorption
may be due to things other than chlorophyll in the sample which are not in the blank.
This is possible because the blank was enriched filtered sea water, not filtered culture.
Thus, there may be biogenic solutes or particles in the cultures which do not contain
chlorophyll but do absorb light. 2) The relationship of a to chl may be non linear,
This may be true, because when the cultures are thicker there is more scattered light, and
scattered light travels through a longer path length in the cuvette, therefore, it has more
opportunity to be absorbed. This is especially true in the 10 cm cuvette (as opposed to the
1 cm cuvette used for attenuation). 3) older plants may absorb less light per chlorophyll.
