INTRODUCTION
Stimulated fluorescence and beam attenuation may be powerful tools to measure in
situ chlorophyll and biomass in the open ocean. If perfected, these methods would
provide oceanographers with several orders of magnitude more data to study primary
productivity and algal ecology. However, these signals are not yet reliable tools for
ecological parameters. This is due in part to diel oscillations of the signals which are
hypothesized to result from changes in phytoplankton physiology (Dickey 1992; Stegman
et al 1992; Stramska and Dickey 1992). Understanding and predicting these diel cycles is
an essential step in the determination of accurate algal biomass from shipboard and moored
fluorometers (Prezelin and Ley 1980; Mauzerall 1972; Abbott 1982).
Stimulated fluorescence in the ocean has been correlated to phytoplankton
populations (Prezelin and Ley 1980; Keifer 1973a; Abbot et al. 1982). Recently, a diel
pattern of this signal has been observed from drogues, ships, and moorings in the
Sargasso Sea, Monterey Bay, and the equatorial Pacific. (Dickey 1992; Chavez pers.
comm.; Abbot et al. 1990) The daily changes in fluorescence may be due to a
combination of phytoplankton physiology, growth, grazing, mixing, demography, and
dissolved organic sources of variability. A model of the diel patter due to physiology
would decouple signals due to physiology from signals due to actual changes in biomass.
In this paper, cultures of phytoplankton exposed to sunlight consistantly had a
daily minimum in fluorescence equal to 50% of their daily maximum (a factor of 2
difference between night and day). Beam attenuation decreased to 80% of its maximum (a
factor of 1.25 between night and day). These data are consistent with in situ
observations, and provide the basis for an empirical determination of chlorophyll from
strobe-stimulated fluorescence and PAR.
Theory:
Fluorescece is a measure of photons which were absorbed by pigments but
whose energy was not shunted into photosynthesis. When plants absorb light, there are
three sinks for the energy: vibrations, fluorescence and redox reactions. Vibrations (heat)
are insignificant, and redox reactions are synonymous with photosynthesis (Arnon 1968).
In the steady state, conservation of energy requires:
Eabsorbed - Efluoresced + Ephotosynthesis
