This is useful because mean f correlates well to chlorophyll concentration (Chavez
1991) and chlorophyll concentration correlate to rates of primary productivity (Balch et.
al 1992). Primary productivity rates are the key element in the models of the biological
carbon budget in the ocean. Moreover, primary productivity in the ocean may be the
major sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide. Thus, instantaneous fluorescence
measurements may provide useful data for current issues in global oceanography if
correction algorithms such as the one presented here are made more consistant. Despite
the many unknowns, this correction algorithm already correlates instantaneous
fluorescence with carbon budgets by a factor of 2 more certainty.
Specifically, this correction algorithm is useful for transects made with a
fluorometer, because one cannot observe a full daily cycle in each parcel of water from a
moving ship. Even if an accurate mean is not known, the emperical relationship to PAR
discussed thus far will indicate the direction of error due to physiological changes in
phytoplankton during in situ observations of f.
The observed perturbation of fluorescence one and two days after a cloudy day may
represent real changes in chlorophyll concentration. This is likely because all
phytoplankton cultures chlorophyll concentrations increased faster when they were not in
direct sun. Thus, on a cloudy day, the increased fluorescence signal is likely to be a
physiological response to reduced PAR, while high f values on the next sunny day are
hypothesized to represent actual increases in chlorophyll.
Thus far, I have discussed ways to correct for the diel cycle in fluorescence. Yet
this cycle may contain useful data. For example, changes in the diel fluorescence cycles
may identify species. The culture results support this hypothesis. Fluorescence changes
in Phaeodactylum were to be more sensitive to PAR than in Dunalliella in the incubator
and unlike Dunalliela the fluorecence response for Phaeodactylum in the direct sun did
not change significantly for PAR above 1000 mE/m2.
These species-specific responses to light may explain some of the more fine points
of the in situ results. For example, the in situ f* (f divided by mean f) does not
quite have a constant amplitude: it is largest at the end of the first of the spring blooms.
This may reflect a higher population of more sensitive phytoplankton, such as
Phaodactylum , at that time in the Monterey bay. Yet, this is a difficult problem,
because many changes: sensitivity, threshholds, and growth rates are all superimposed
on each other. Thus, it is difficult at this point to make significant claims about in situ
species distributions with these remote bio-optical data.
