filter feeders such as Mytilus californianus and Mitella
polymerus tend to support this idea in that there was a lack
of clustering, gereral smaller size, and looser attachment
at Stations 3 and 4 (cf. Welsh, 1970). Tunicates, still
another group of filter feeders, are also conspicuously absent
from Stations 2-6 where overhanging rocks and tide pools would
seem to provide perfectly habitable areas for this group.
A phylum apparently affected by the effluent is Mollusca,
especially the limpets. It was quite noticeable in the outfall
region that the limpets were often attached very loosely to the
rocks and could be picked off by hand, especially A. digitalis.
The rocks were covered with Hildenbrandia, an encrusting alga,
and a diatomaceus slime which may account for the decreased
attachment strength of limpets in the area. In Stations 2-4
in the outfall region, the A. digitalis were very small and
almost all were under 2mm in length. In the areas farthest
removed from the outfall, they often reached a length of nearl,
2 cm. Small limpets were also found in these areas far to the
north and the south, but always along with the larger A. digitalis.
If it were assumed these small Acmaea were very young, then it
may be hypothesized that the effluent is affecting some adult
stage of the organism rather than a developmental stage. Although
Acmaea scabra was also smaller in the proximity of the outfall,
it seemed to be able to attach far more securely to rocks than
A. digitalis. It was observed in field studies that A. scabra"
scalloped shell conformed closely to its position on the irregular
rock surface. This may account for its stronger attachment to rocks.
The larger limpets such as Lottia gigantea, Diodora spp.,
Acmaea scutum, A. pelta, and A. limatula were scarce or completely
missing from Stations 2-4, although quite abundant at other stations.
More detailed work is obviously necessary to back up the very
qualitative statements about attachment strength and shell size.
The observations about limpets examined in the distributional
studies led to the LT50 experiments with Acmaea digitalis and
