chemical tests, it is evident Station E 160 feet south of the
outfall does not receive as much effluent as Station F about
600 feet south of the outfall.
The results of the chemical analyses were not conclusive
and must be repeated at a later date for confirmation. However,
the data strongly suggests the movement of the effluent with
the currents southward towards the Monastery Beach and Point
Lobos areas, where it apparently may stay for some time.
The chemical analyses definitely indicated some areas in
the region of the outfall were receiving larger doses of effluent
than others. This information aided in selection of the transect
locations. It was immediately evident from our transects that
near and to the south of the outfall had fewer animal species
than areas farther removed from the outfall. For example,
certain species of molluscs, crabs, starfich, tunicates, and
barnacles were scarce or entirely lacking in transects 3-6 where
physical parameters denoted conditions capable of supporting
such populations. Figure 19 shows this evidence very clearly.
Unfortunately, certain species such as annelids were left out
of this study due to the difficulty in collecting and identifying
such small organisms. The transects were examined on two different
days in order to increase the accuracy of the observations.
It is not possible to entirely eliminate sampling errors
in the distributional studies, but attempts were made to
minimize these errors as much as possible. Tunicates and
porifera presented a difficult problem because the numbers
of individuals in colonies could not be easily counted. Therefore,
only their presence or absence was included in the distribution
samples, and they were excluded from diversity index calculations.
For quantitative studies, five typical areas were selected
at each of the eight stations with tidal height, exposed surface,
and wave action approximated as closely as possible for each
type of area. The results showed a clear gradient for the
total number of species in each type of area for the eight stations
