with the greatest numbers occurring in the control areas and
decreaing towards the outfall. There is no such gradient for
the total number of individuals in an area. This may be
accounted for by the fact that some species, i.e. Acmaea scabra
and Anthopleura elegantissima may be doing better in the outfall
region due to decreased competition from other species. The
competition between Acmaea scabra and A. digitalis has been
well documented by Haven in a 1966 Monterey Bay area study.
The diversity indices used in this study are dependent
on sample size and range too widely to support a definite
gradient from control to outfall area. Still, it is clear
that for Area Types I-IV (Tables 5-8), the diversity indices
for the outfall Station 4 are considerably lower than for the
areas farthest away from the outfall at Stations 1 and 9. This
is not true for Area Type V which is at the highest tidal height
examined. One possible reason for this apparent contradiction
is simply that an area five feet above mean lower low water
is often out of the water, and hence does not receive sustained
exposure to the sewage effluent. Similar results for the
relationship between tidal height and a diversity indices
gradient was noted by Clearman (1970) in his study of the
distribution and abundance of microfauna at varying distances
from the Pacific Grove, California outfall.
The general pattern of distribution seen was likewise
reflected in the number of live barnacles in the different
distribution squares. A barnacle was assumed to be living
if the shell was filled with the organism. Empty shells
were noted so that the per cent of live barnacles in the
distribution squares could be tabulated (Tables 5-9). There
is definitely a greater ratio of live to dead barnadles in
the areas farthest away from the outfall region. A possible
explanation for this is that barnacles are filter feeders
and therefore, come into significantly large contact with
the sewage in the water. The distribution patterns of other
