There is also evidence for changes in the populations of intertidal anemones. We
observed a significant increase in the number of Anthopleura elegantissima. In the study
area we found over 100 A. elegantissima, all of which were the solitary form. No clonal
forms were found in he transect, although they are present at other points in the intertidal
around Hopkins. Hewatt found only 10, and it is unclear whether these were solitary
forms or clonal forms. While clonal A. elegantissima is a cosmopolitan species, work
done by Lisbeth Francis (1979) shows that solitary elegantissima is a southern species.
We observed a decrease in Anthopleura xanthogrammica, which is shown in Francis' work
to be a northern species. We also observed an increase in Corynactis californicus, a
southern species which is primarily a subtidal form.
Perhaps the most dramatic evidence for change in intertidal species range has been
observed in the sessile snail, Serpulorbis squamigerus. In his list of 170 species observed
in the intertidal zone, Hewatt does not mention Serpulorbis. Yet, in just 19 square yards
we found nearly 500 of the snails. Serpulorbis is now one of the most abundant creatures
throughout this region. The northern limit of its range is listed as Monterey Bay by several
authors (see for example Morris, et al, 1980 and Hadfield 1966), but they report that
Serpulorbis lives only as single individuals this far north. However, we have seen large
aggregations of Serpulorbis in several locations in the southern part of the bay. In addition
to Hopkins Marine Station, the most notable concentration is the rocky intertidal of the
harbor behind the Coast Guard breakwater in Monterey. Mark Hadfield, whose 1966
thesis done at Hopkins, is the most comprehensive study of Serpulorbis to date, had to
obtain the Serpulorbis for his study from southern California. He would clearly not have
that inconvenience were his study done today.
The shifts in species range that these data suggest may have a relation to the location
of our study site. Hopkins Marine Station is located in the southern bight of Monterey Bay
which tends to be slightly warmer than the waters which surround it. It is often home to
species that are usually found further south and not observed to the north. It is also,
