centigrade for the entire graph. A t-test calculated on the two data series presented in the
graph was statistically significant (t--13.65, pe.01), clearly showing that the area around
Hopkins is warming up. This is also supported by figure 7 which shows the mean annual
temperature for each year. A linear regression calculated on the data presented in figure 7
shows an increase of .Oll degree per year. Changes in mean annual maximum and
minimum temperatures have also been calculated to be increasing at rates of .017 and .O11
degree per year respectively (Denny, pers comm.). The effects of this warming trend will
be discussed later in the paper.
Air temperature and precipitation data are not collected at Hopkins. Following
Hewatt's example, we used data collected by the U. S. Weather Service at the Del Monte
Station in Monterey. Comparisons of seasonal means for both parameters are presented in
figures 8 and 9, air temperature data was not available for the period before 1931. These
figures, although not showing any significant changes, do suggest a shift to slightly
warmer and drier winters in the recent past.
Based on these changes we propose that many of the changés in species
composition are related to a shift in the geographic ranges of species associated with the
warming of the area around the Monterey Peninsula. To test this, we divided the 42
species listed in table 2 into three general geographic ranges, based primarily on the ranges
listed in Morris, et al (1980) (see figures 10-12). The 6 northern species have ranges
which are recorded to extend no further south than Pt. Conception, or are considered
extremely rare south of this point. The 10 southern species have ranges which are recorded
to extend no further north than Crescent City, California, or are considered extremely rare
north of this point. The 26 remaining species, whose ranges extend beyond both of these
markers, were put into the "cosmopolitan" group. Although considered cosmopolitan by
Morris, et al (1980) we considered the solitary form of Anthopleura elegantissima and A.
xanthogrammica southern and northern, respectively, based on L. Francis (1979). If a
warming of Monterey Bay is affecting the species present, then we would expect to see a
