ABSTRACT
Nineteen square yards of W.G. Hewatt's (1934) ecological transect in the intertidal
zone at Hopkins Marine Station were replicated in order to determine changes in
populations of intertidal invertebrates. Forty-two invertebrate species showed an
appreciable change in number between the two studies. It was hypothesized that some of
the changes might represent shifts in species range due to a temperature increase which was
observed in historical sea surface temperature data for the intertidal zone at Hopkins. The
species were divided by their listed ranges into northern, southern, and cosmopolitan
categories to determine any correlation between changes in a species population and its
listed geographic range. Changes in the physical habitat, introduction of the predators
Haematopus bachmani and Enhydra lutris to the area, increases in sea gull populations,
and increases in Macrocystis were also considered as factors driving the changes in some
of the species. When these factors were accounted for, increases in 8 of 10 southern and
decreases in 4 of 5 northern species were observed, suggesting a temperature dependent
species shift.
INTRODUCTION
In 1930, Professor G. E. MacGinitie established four brass benchmarks in
the intertidal zone off of Cabrillo (China) Point on the southern end of Monterey Bay.
These four markers became the eastern edge of a 108 yard long by 1 yard wide ecological
transect surveyed by W. G. Hewatt from October 1931 to June 1933 (see Hewatt 1934
and 1937). Hewatt recorded the abundance of 90 species in 81 square yards of the
transect. This work is still the most broad scope study of invertebrate populations in the
intertidal zone at Hopkins Marine Station.
In the 60 years since Hewatt's transect work, numerous changes have occurred in
the region surrounding his study area. These changes include: physical processes such as
erosion; population increases of predators, such as sea otters, oystercatchers, and seals; the
collapse of the canneries and changes in exploited fish populations; human population
growth and changes in industrial activities in the surrounding towns; and a possible large
scale climate change. Several studies have documented some of the faunal changes in the
region of the study area(see Lowry and Pearse 1973, Kovnat 1982, Hahn 1985).
This study began as an attempt to identify changes in the population of one
such faunal species, the vermetid gastropod, Serpulorbis squamigerus. Since its presence
was noted within the area of Hewatt's study, the transect was considered as a way to
document these changes. Once work began on the transect, however, we realized that
