If the return of the otters has caused an expansion of the Macrocystis kelp forest
around Hopkins, it would explain the increases in populations of Tegula funebralis and T.
brunnea. both of these species are preferential consumers of Macrocystis; Tbrunnea as a
subtidal grazer and T. funebralis on the drift kelp that is washed inshore (Morris, et al,
1980).
The increase in Crepidula adunca can be related to the absolute increase in Tegula
spp. since Crepidula reside almost exclusively on the shells of living Tegula (Morris, et al,
1980). But a further examination of the Crepidula population reveals that relative to the
number of available Tegula, Crepidula has decreased. Table 3 shows that the ratio of
Crepidula to Tegula has dropped from approximately 1 to 4 in 1934, to 1 to 7 in 1993.
This is what we would expect based on the classification of Crepidula as a northern species
(Morris, et al, 1980), if there was a temperature dependent species shift. It is even more
pronounced if only the higher quadrats are compared. In quadrats 27 through 33, where
there are no significant numbers of T. brunnea, our study shows one Crepidula for every
32 Tegula, whereas Hewatt found a ratio of one to eleven. The absence of T. brunnea
indicates that these quadrats are more exposed and so should show a greater response to
climactic changes.
Other Snails
The final group of changes occurred in the populations of small snails that reside on
the low, algal covered rocks on either side of the channel. The snails Mitrella carinata and
Amphissa versicolor showed a large drop in numbers; while Bittium eschrichtii,
Homaloploma luridium, and Lacuna marmorata, all showed significant increases.
Unfortunately almost nothing is known about these five snails (see Morris, et al, 1980). It
is conceivable that either temperature or ecological factors have caused a shift in the types
of algae present on the rocks on which these snails reside, but there is no information on
the algal conditions of the transect in past years, and even if there were, there is no
11
