for various reasons. Of the species observable by both us and Hewatt, 31 increased their
numbers, 33 decreased, and six could not be compared because they had not been recorded
in quantifiable terms by one of the two studies.
We excluded 40 species which we felt were not abundant enough to consider from
further study. These were species which were absent in one study and present in numbers
of less than 10 individuals in the other study, or species which had numbers totaling 5
individuals or less in both studies combined. One species, Tegula pulligo, was excluded
because of concerns about correct identification. The remaining species are listed, with
totals, in table 2. Using a paired t-test, it was established that 10 of the increases and 7 of
the decreases were significant at the 5% percent level. They are denoted in table 2 by an
asterisk.
It should be clear to anyone comparing numbers of individuals in table 2 and
observing their distributions in table 1, that several species exhibit changes of a definite
biological significance between the two studies and yet are not ascribed as being statistically
significant. This is primarily due to the small sample size of the transect Because the unit
of measurement (a square yard) is so large and because many of the species have very
narrow habitat ranges, a significant number of species were present in only four or fewer
squares. With a sample size smaller than five, it is often difficult to establish reasonable
limits of significance. Because of this problem, we choose not to limit our analysis to only
the statistically significant changes, but also included any differences that appeared to be of
a considerable size and defensible on other criteria.
Climatological Changes
Surface water temperature is recorded daily at the Hopkins Marine Station and
salinity was likewise recorded until 1975 (Hopkins 1964, Scripps 1965-1991). Mean
annual salinity (figure 5) is almost constant at 33.5 0/00 for the 55 years of data available.
Figure 6 presents mean seasonal surface water temperatures for the ten years preceding this
study and the ten years preceding Hewatt's study. It shows a warming of about S degree
