reports extensive beds of large Mytilus disappearing within the first few months of the
otters' northward spread to Hopkins Marine Station in l9xx. (Baxter, pers. comm.)
That the sea otters are responsible for the decline in the subtidal populations of S.
purpuratus around the marine station was established by Lowry and Pearse (1973). They
point to a decline in the subtidal population from a density of 6 per square meter before the
return of the otters to 21 per square meter ten years after. They also point out that this
change in the sea urchin population may have effects on the subtidal kelp forest, which will
be discussed later.
The decrease in numbers of Pisaster, and another sea star Leptasterias hexactis,
may also be due to an increase in sea gull predation at the marine station. The region
surrounding the transect is a resting and feeding area for large numbers of gulls and other
shorebirds. The increase in human use of the shore area, combined with the establishment
of Hopkins as a protected area, may have led to an enhancement in the local population of
these predators since Hewatt's study. Sea gulls were observed preying in sea stars during
the course of this investigation.
Kelp changes
A secondary effect of the return of the sea otter is a change in the subtidal kelp
beds. As described above sea otters prey preferentially on Stronglyocentrotus spp., and
are responsible for a decline in subtidal populations of these species around the marine
station. Often in areas without otter populations, high numbers of sea urchins overgraze
the kelp forests, creating "urchin barrens." When otters move into the area, the urchin
numbers are reduced and kelp species return to the area (Estes and Harrold 1987, Lowry
and Pearse 1973). Since evidence exists for the presence of a Macrocystis kelp bed
offshore in 1935 (Andrews, 1945), an urchin barren could not have existed; but a decrease
of the magnitude described above must still have resulted in an expansions of the
Macrocystis beds when the otters returned.
10
