information on how these snails interact with various algal species. The reasons behind the
changes in these five snail populations must, at least for now, remain a mystery.
Shifts in Species Range
When the species primarily affected by these other factors were removed from
consideration, we found that increases in southern species remained at 8 of 10, but
decreases in northern species changed to 4 of 4, and cosmopolitan species showed an even
8 increases and 8 decreases, which is what we expected considering that temperature
variations would not as readily affect cosmopolitan species. These results are presented in
table 4.
For example, we have observed an increase in two predatory gastropods, Acanthina
punctulata and Ocenebra circumtexta, both of which are southern species. Neither of these
species were cited by Hewatt on his transect and they have now replaced the sea stars as the
major invertebrate predators of the upper intertidal zone. The increase in the population of
these species is certainly an ecologically significant change.
We have also observed some interesting and perplexing changes in barnacle
populations at China point. Hewatt found no Chthamalus in the intertidal zone during the
course of his study. We observed large numbers of Chthamalus both in the transect line
and in other parts of the intertidal zone at Hopkins. It is possible that Hewatt did not
differentiate between Balanus and Chthamalus. However, since both species were
described at the time, and Hewatt has shown himself to be a competent biologist, we feel
that this is highly unlikely. There are two species of Chthamalus which could be present at
our site, C. fissus and C. dalli. The two species can not be distinguished without a
microscope, but C. fissus is a southern species, with a northern limit of San Francisco.
The barnacle Tetraclita rubescens, another southern species with a northern limit of San
Francisco, has also shown a population increase. In the squares we studied, we found 882
Tetraclita, whereas Hewatt found none.
12
