decrease in the northem species group, an increase in the southern species group, and no
change in the cosmopolitan species.
Looking only at species range, we found that 8 of 10 southern species increased in
population from Hewatt's results (figure 10), 4 of 6 northern species decreased in
population (figure 11), and I1 cosmopolitan species increased in population, while 15
cosmopolitan species decreased (figure 12). However, it was apparent that other factors
besides the temperature changes were affecting populations of certain species. These
factors can be generally classified as; changes in populations of associated species, changes
in predation patterns, and changes in physical habitat. We will discuss these factors before
returning to the question of species range.
Physical Changes
In his description of the site, Hewatt (1934) notes the presence of many large
boulders along the transect. Sixty years later, it appears that the majority of these stones
are no longer present. As mentioned, we found only one boulder on the transect that could
be overturned. This seems a likely explanation for the decrease in numbers of Petrolisthes
cinctipes and Amphipholis pugetana, both of which are creatures that reside under rocks
(Morris, et al, 1980).
Oystercatchers
In his study of the effects of black oystercatchers, Haematopus bachmani, at
Cabrillo point, Thomas Hahn (1985) found that just one pair of the birds can have a
significant effect on several limpet populations. Hahn found that the oystercatchers had the
greatest negative effect on Lottia digitalis, L limatula, and L pelta by feeding on these
species. Oystercatchers rarely feed on McClintockia scabra, because that species homing
behavior allows it to fit its shell closely to the granite substrate, making it difficult to
remove. We found decreases in both L limatula and L. pelta and an increase we M.
scabra which fits the selective predation pattern of the oystercatchers. Hahn did not
mention Tectura scutum in his paper, and it is likely that there were simply too few of this
