observers to find the line, we have included a map of the area with the transect line
correctly marked (figure 1) as well as several photographs of the transect line (figure 2).
We replicated 19 square yards of the transect during the course of this study. The
squares we studied matched Hewatt's squares 27-38 and squares 62-68. Square 27 marks
the lower limit of the Balanus/Chthamalus association. Square 38 marks the shoreward
edge of the large permanent channel which runs through the intertidal zone. Square 62
picks up on the other side of the channel and the transect continues along several yards of
flat, algae covered granite, until square 68, which marks the edge of a small, permanent
channel.
Survey Methods
So that we could replicate Hewatt's work, we ran a line between the two points,
adjusting for the fact that the first peg is not located exactly on the edge of the transect. We
marked rocks in several points on the line with red nail polish in order to more easily locate
the transect.
In order to most accurately compare our results to Hewatt's, we used the same
square yard unit. We found the location of the squares Hewatt counted by measuring from
either of the two pegs along the line we had marked. In addition, we were able to ensure
that we were measuring the same square by matching our quadrat to the sketches of the
rock structure of each square that Hewatt included with his thesis. To delineate the area we
were to count, we laid down a square yard quadrat, constructed of PVC pipe (figure 3),
with one edge of the square on the line. As this stiff square could not lay evenly on the
rock surfaces, we marked out the corners of the square on the rock by dropping a plumb
line from each of the corners of the PVC square. We then connected the four points we
had marked on the rock with lengths of flat-link brass chain, which could conform to the
varied terrain of the rock surface. In order to simplify counting, we divided the projected
quadrat into nine sections using chains (figure 4), and counted one section at a time.
