species present at the time of his study. Whether the large decrease in T. scutum we
observed occurred before or after the pair of oystercatchers arrived at Cabrillo point is
unclear.
Sea Otters
Decreases in four of the cosmopolitan species, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus,
Mytilus californianus, Pugettia producta, and Pisaster ochraceus, could be the result of
changes in the population of a common predator, Enhydra lutris, the sea otter. Sea otters
were hunted to near extinction during the nineteenth century, but returned to the area
around the Hopkins Marine Station in the early 1960's (Lowry and Pearse, 1973).
It is difficult to establish exactly what constitutes the sea otters diet. Kovnat
(1982) studied intertidal otter prey specifically in the area around Hopkins. Thirty-five
percent of the prey items he observed were gastropods, 26% were "other," 18.8% were
"unidentified," and 14% were bivalves. This demonstrates precisely the problem in trying
to establish a local prey list for the sea otter, almost forty-five percent of the observed prey
in Kovnat's list are of unknown species.
Many diverse reports exist in the literature (see for example Riedman and Estes
1987, Kovnat 1982, Wild and Ames 1974). The preferred prey is perhaps best described
as sea urchins, abalones and rock crabs, but it is highly variable and depends on the
availability of prey. As otters expand their range and move into new areas they quickly
deplete the populations of these preferred prey and their diet becomes more varied (Wild
and Ames, 1974). Reports of otter prey include species of Tegula, Balanus, Pisaster,
Mytilus, Pugettia, Octopus, and various clams (Riedman and Estes, 1987).
Evidence does exist (Kovnat, 1982) that sea otters are responsible for the dramatic
decline in the numbers of Mytilus spp. around the marine station. By comparing size
distribution of mussels between Hopkins and an area known to be outside the otters range
(Pescadero State Beach), Kovnat showed that the differences in Mytilus populations
between the two sites was due to otter predation around the station. Also verbal history
