If the data from the direct-exposure sites in this study are pooled over
the entire experiment period, then 0.3% of the limpets at these sites were
newly-damaged per day for a five-week period in April and May. In the study
by Shanks and Wright it was measured that 0.5% of limpets were newly
damaged per day in March, while 0.2% of limpets were newly damaged per
day in June. Shanks and Wright took measurements only in March, June,
September, and November. Interestingly, both studies not only agree on the
approximate incidence of new limpet damage, but this study also finds a
value intermediate to those found in Shanks and Wright's March and June
measurements, as one might ideally expect. This does not rule out chance or
coincidence, but this does provide some confidence in the results, and more
importantly, indicates that one can still measure repeatable data despite the
complexity of the factors that influence wave projectiles.
Assuming that the incidence of new limpet shell damage is well
approximated by the data from both studies, it is possible to extrapolate the
results to investigate the effects of wave projectiles in a limpet's lifetime. By
taking the least-squares regression line that correlates wave velocity with
limpet damage and normalizing the results per surface area, one finds that a
50 mm long (about 1500 mm *) L. gigantea, living in a model world with
constant wave exposure and average wave-induced water velocity of 5 m/s,
would experience an average of 22.2 "hits" on its shell each year, and that 2.6
of these "hits" would cause visible shell damage (see Figures 5, 6, 7). If 0.3% of
limpets are hit per day in five weeks (35 days) as this study's data suggest, one
can also extrapolate the probability of a limpet receiving a hit over a series ofx
days (see Figure 8). These data indicate that a single limpet will have a 50%
chance of receiving a damaging hit in a period of 227 days. While at first
these might seem like high estimates and that this data suggest that all
