Zonation of Tegula
Monique Rocca
Discussion
Desiccation
Tegula brunnea clearly cannot survive exposure to air as well as T. funebralis. The
first experiment indicates that it is a physiological tolerance rather than a behavior that
allows T. funebralis to live in the high intertidal, in contrast to Wolcott's (1973) findings
for intertidal limpets. The differences in mortality of T. brunnea between the two
experiments reveal that a combination of heat stress and water loss probably determine
how long T. brunnea can survive out of water. In the first trial, the snails spent 5.5
hours in direct sunlight. Temperatures in the bowls reached 27°C, 10 degrees higher
than the temperature maintained indoors. Even under cooler conditions when T.
brunnea were not dying, T. funebralis appeared better adapted for survival. It was noted
in preliminary experiments that surviving T. funebralis emerged almost immediately
from their shells upon re-submersion, while some T. brunnea took over 24 hours to re-
emerge. It was also observed that T. brunnea individuals retreated into their shells
within 3-6 hours of exposure while T. funebralis individuals subjected to the same
environmental conditions remained attached to the bowl by the foot for up to 9 hours.
In this amount of time, snails would surely get tossed around in the surf and would be
unable to attempt escape from predators. Desiccation and overheating appear to be
factors which maintain the upper limit of T. brunnea.
Past research has indicated that size may be an important determinant of the
amount of heat absorbed or the amount of moisture lost from a snail (Paine 1971 cited in
Markowitz 1980). However, since all the T. brunnea died, there was no way to elucidate
a size effect for that species. The high variance among replicate bowls containing T.
funebralis may have hidden a size effect. The variance was so high that differences
between the different exposure times were not statistically significant after 6 hours, and
the average mortality went down with exposure time. To determine whether mortality
rates depend on size, further research should be conducted with large numbers of snails.
