Zonation of Tegula
Monique Rocca
sea stars move higher on the shore. Paine (1969) found that 25-28% of the T. funebralis
which overlap with Pisaster get consumed by the stars. One possible explanation for the
difference between this study and others is that, at Hopkins, sea otters are prevalent. Sea
otters are known to have strong effect on the ecology of an area because they eat so many
of the smaller predators such as sea stars and crabs, thus keeping their populations low
(Riedman and Estes 1990). The Cancer crabs found in the Hopkins area are quite small (8
12 cm) compared to those used in past studies (15 cm) (Awad 1994, Watanabe, personal
communication), and smaller Cancer eat more slowly in the lab (personal observation).
In contrast, the past field studies of Paine (1969) and Markowitz (1980) were done
in areas where the sea otters have not repopulated since they were hunted out -100 years
ago (Riedman and Estes 1990). Paine’s study was done in Washington state and
Markowitz’s study was done at Point Reyes, California. These areas probably have higher
densities of invertebrate predators due to the absence of otters. The selective forces that
Tegula would have experienced historically were probably closer to those found at
Hopkins Marine Station today. It seems, therefore, that predation is not a strong force
affecting the distributions of Tegula. Further investigation, however, would be of value.
Microhabitat preference
It is known that, in the field, T. brunnea is found most often in areas of dense
algal cover (Watanabe 1984b) whereas T. funebralis avoids dense algal cover, even when
it is found high in the intertidal zone (Wara and Wright 1963, Paine 1969). The tidal
height where dense algal cover tends to change to sparser cover correlates with the tidal
height where the two Tegulu species overlap. The fact that T. funebralis was found
significantly more often than T. brunnen on rocks with light algal cover indicates that
microhabitat preferences differ between the species. If more counts were taken, T.
brunnea might be shown to occur significantly more often on the rocks with dense algal
﻿12
