Monique Rocca
Zonation of Tegula
Predation
Pisaster ochraceous and Cancer antenarius, are the major predators of lՎgula at
Hopkins Marine Station, although otters, octopi, and perhaps birds eat Tegula as well
(Paine 1969, Abbott and Haderlie 1980). Therefore, if predation was maintaining the
lower limit of T. funebralis, one would expect to see more T. funebralis consumed by at
least one of these two predators. It was especially expected that Cancer would eat more of
the thinner-shelled T. funebralis than the thick shelled T. brunnea because Cancer is
known to be more successful at cracking the shells of thinner shelled species (Abbott and
Haderlie 1980, Awad 1994). While only one of the Pisaster predation trials and one of
the Cancer trials showed a significant difference between the two species, the data
indicates that T. brunnea were consumed more frequently than T. funebralis. This
unexpected result can be explained, however, by the observation that the escape response
of T. funebralis was more effective than the escape response of T. brunnea : Individual
T. funebralis crawled up the sides of the tank until they were above the water line, and
sometimes substantially higher. In contrast, individual T. brunnea crawled up the
sides of the tank until they reached the surface, and then either moved horizontally
along the water line, or, if trapped by a Pisaster, let go of the surface and tumbled over
the sea star down into the bottom of the tank. These are the same escape responses that
have been well documented by others (Yarnall 1963, Geller 1982, Watanabe 1983, Awad
1984 ). Because neither Pisaster nor Cancer ever foraged above the water line, most of the
T. funebralis were out of reach of the predators. In contrast, individual 1. brunnea
remained in the range of the predators, and, consequently, were captured more often.
This probably occurred even though all snails were pushed below the water line as often
as possible. In the field, T. brunnea probably escape predators by hiding in the dense algal
cover which occurs in the shallow subtidal zone (Watanabe 1984b).
The escape response raises the possibility that a behavioral mechanism is keeping
T. funebralis up high in the intertidal zone. If it is, and if the climbing behavior is
10
