Zonation of Tegula
Monique Rocca
Introduction
One of the goals of ecology is to explain what causes organisms to live where they
do. The rocky intertidal is an ideal habitat to study factors affecting species composition
because of the steep gradient of abiotic stresses to organisms caused by the diurnal
fluctuation in tidal height. Classic studies such as those of Connell (1961), Dayton (1971),
and Paine (1974), have lead to the commonly accepted notion that the upper limits of
intertidal organisms' range tend to be caused by abiotic factors, such as the ability of the
organism to tolerate desiccation, and that the lower limits are caused by biotic
interactions such as predation and competition. The two intertidal species of turban
snail, Tegula funebralis and T. brunnea, are abundant and vertically zoned. While many
aspects of their ecology have been studied (Paine 1969, Markowitz 1980, Geller 1982,
Watanabe 1983, 1984a, 1984b, Fawcett 1984), the factors causing the zonation of Tegula are
still unknown.
T. brunnea is found in the low intertidal zone and is abundant in shallow subtidal
waters of 0-6 m depth (Abbott and Haderlie 1980, Watanabe 1983). T. funebralis is
abundant throughout the intertidal zone, especially between .6 and 1.2 m above MLLW
(Abbot and Haderlie 1980, Wara and Wright 1963). Despite their differing ranges, T.
funebralis and T. brunnea are evolutionarily closely related. Their main respiratory
pigments, hemocyanins, are very similar, and both species excrete uric acid (Abbot and
Haderlie 1980). It is quite probable, then, that the two species diverged relatively recently
from a common ancestor and should therefore have similar physical and behavioral
characteristics.
A series of experiments was conducted to examine what differences between these
species could be causing their ecological separation. These included experiments testing
how long each species can survive desiccation and heat stress, predation experiments in
the lab and the field, and an experiment testing the preferred microhabitats of each
species.
