Zonation of Tegula
Monique Rocca
observed only in the presence of predator scents, T. funebralis would have to be
surrounded continuously by enough predator scents to keep the snails from descending
into the low intertidal. If the behavior is observed consistently in the absence of predator
scents, it would be of interest to elucidate the selective force that caused the evolution of
the behavior. Unfortunately, past research has failed to demonstrate whether or not
climbing is observed in the absence of predators. It seems that climbing behavior does
occur without predators, but not as far, as frequently, or as fast (La Roe 1963, Geller 1982)
Control Tegula tanks without predators yielded a similar result. The possibility that a
climbing behavior is keeping the T. funebralis up high is a good one that merits further
investigation.
In the tethering experiment, overall mortality in the field was unexpectedly low,
Mortality may have been somewhat exaggerated due to experimental artifacts. For
example, most of the deaths in the middle zone were due to one Pisaster who found a
tangle of strings and snails and took advantage of their inability to run away. Also,
leashes with missing snails and an intact knot were considered Cancer predation, even
though it was never observed directly. Few T. brunnea in the high zone died of
desiccation. However, the T. brunnea survivors appeared unhealthy; they were partially
retreated into their shells and not holding onto the substrate. Because the mortality was
so low, the ANOVA was run by grouping all the sources of mortality together and testing
for species and height effects. The lack of species and height effects indicate that
prédation pressure is not strong on the snails at Hopkins Marine Station.
The finding that predation pressures are not strong contradicts past studies that
have documented the effect of predators on the zonation of T. funebralis. There is
évidence that predation pressures may keep T. funebralis from occurring lower on the
shore. Fawcett (1984) shows that at sites where predator density is high, the lower limit
of the T. funebralis range is higher than at sites where predator density is low.
Markowitz (1980) shows that T. funebralis migrate upwards at the same time of year that
11
