Zonation of Tegula
Monique Rocca
effort was made to find Pisaster that were submerged at the time of collection so that they
could be removed easily from the rock with minimal damage to the star’s tube feet.
Snails measured 1.8-2.3 cm in maximum basal diameter, Pisaster ranged from 10-20 cm
(ray tip to opposite side of oral disk), and Cancer had carapace widths of 8-12 cm.
At least once daily, the number of remaining snails was counted and the missing
snails replaced. In the Pisaster tanks, the number of empty shells provided the best count
of the number of snails eaten, whereas in the Cancer tanks, all the missing snails were
assumed eaten. Care was taken to prevent snails from escaping the tanks (a rare'
occurrence). As often as possible and at least once daily, snails that had crawled above the
water line were dropped back into the water.
For each trial, the proportion of total consumed snails belonging to each species
was calculated. Then, using the normal approximation to the binomial distribution, the
probability of the observed proportions was calculated assuming an equal probability of
either species being eaten. If this probability was less than .05, then it was assumed that
the predators were selecting one snail species over the other.
Tethering experiment
A field experiment was also conducted to determine whether the results of the
laboratory desiccation and predation experiments were reflected in the field. Snails of
each species were tethered to rocks in the intertidal zone at Hopkins Marine Station at
three tidal heights. If desiccation is important in keeping T. brunnea low, then the T.
brunnea at the high stations should show mortality due to exposure (and vice versa-if T
funebralis suffer from lengthy submersion, they should drown at the low stations). If
predation is affecting the distributions of either species, species should suffer a higher
rate of mortality outside of their own zone than in it.
Medium sized snails (1.8-2.3 cm in maximum basal diameter) were collected from
Hopkins Marine Station and were kept in running sea water. Small holes were drilled ir
