Monique Rocca
Zonation of Tegula
and submerged in running sea water. At least 24 hours after submersion, percent
mortality was calculated by counting the number of dead snails and dividing by the total
number in the bowl. Snails were considered dead if they were partially open and did not
respond to tactile stimulation, or if they were still completely closed after 24 hours. The
results were analyzed using a fully-orthogonal three-way ANOVA with species, size, and
time as fixed factors.
A second desiccation experiment was undertaken on Tegula brunnea to explore
the unexpected mortality of all the T. brunnea in the first desiccation experiment. The
experiment was conducted as described above, with the following changes: only the smal
and large size classes were tested (7 snails / bowl for large samples, 10 snails / bowl for
small samples), bowls were placed indoors in front of a fan for the entire experiment,
two bowls from each size class were submerged after 3, 6, 12, and 24 hours, and the snails
were given approximately 48 hours to emerge before the percent mortality was
calculated.
Predation Experiments
If benthic predation causes zonation of Tegula, each species of snail should be
more susceptible to predators found outside its own zone (Watanabe 1984b). Pisaster
ochraceous, an intertidal sea star, lives in the middle and low intertidal zones (Feder
1980), extending slightly into the zone of T. funebralis. Cancer antenarius, à rock crab, is
found only in the low intertidal zone (Garth and Abbott 1980). To test whether 1.
funebralis is more susceptible to Pisaster or Cancer predation than is T. brunnea, four
Pisaster or two Cancer were placed in outdoor fiberglass tanks with 30 snails of each
species. Tanks were 1 m2, 20 cm deep, and supplied with running sea water. The only
exception was trial 2 of the Cancer experiments, in which the tank was 25 m2 and half
the number of organisms was used. All the organisms except Cancer were collected at
Hopkins Marine Station. Crabs were obtained from the Monterey Bay Aquarium. An
