Zonation of Tegula
Monique Rocca
the lip of each snail shell and a .5 meter length of monofilament was tied through the
hole such that it did not interfere with snail movement. The other end of the
monofilament was fitted with a slip knot so that it could be secured to a screw in the field
(Fig. 1).
The snails were tethered in a wave-exposed site at Hopkins Marine Station where
both Pisaster and Cancer have been observed. Three tethering stations were set up at
each of three intertidal heights. The three low stations were placed in the zone where
only legula brunnea is found but above mean lower low water (0.5-1.0 ft. above MLLW)
The medium stations were placed in the zone of overlap of the two species (1.0-2.0 ft.
above MLLW). The high stations were located above the range of T. brunnea where
only T. funebralis is found (2.0-5.0 ft. above MLLW). Each station consisted of two bolts
placed less than .25 m away from each other, 5 T. funebralis were secured to one screw
and 5 T. brunnea were secured to the other.
The experiment ran for 17 days. The stations were checked every 2-3 days except
between days 8 and 15 when neap tides made access impossible. Snails that escaped from
their tethers due to an untied knot were replaced on day 4, but subsequent escapees were
excluded from the experiment. Intact, empty shells were assumed to be the result of
Pisaster predation, pieces of broken shell left on the string and knots remaining on empty
tethers were assumed to be the result of crab predation, and dead snails whose bodies
were still present were assumed to be the result of desiccation stress. The results were
analyzed using an orthogonal 2-way ANÖVA, with species and tidal height as fixed
factors.
Microhabitat experiment
This experiment controlled for tidal height while testing whether the two species
of Tegula prefer different microhabitats. Rocks with different algal cover were collected
from the field and placed in an outdoor 25 m2 tank supplied with running sea water.
