effect is unlikely to be the only factor determining barnacle morphology. Otherwise, we would
expect all barnacles to exhibit a more recessed morphology. Furthermore, whelk presence is
unlikely to be a dominant developmental cue if, as we see within the whelk-abundant Hopkins
site, barnacles grow to become more open as they increase in size (Fig. 4). In Tetraclita, size does
not appear to provide a refuge that would diminish the importance of having protected opercular
plates, as barnacles of all sizes were eaten in the experimental treatments.
Heat stress may act as an alternate selective factor in the environment of Tetraclita. The
variation we see in the barnacle shape, particularly the variation in relative height, may be a
function of Tetraclita's thermal environment. Using relative height as an index of shape for which
heat stress might vary, Yip and Shin (1990) concluded that short, broad barnacles were more
insulated and had lower heat flux through their shells. They also found that solar insolation per
unit area was higher on horizontal substrate and that barnacles on horizontal substrate were
shorter. Hence, Yip and Shin (1990) posited that barnacles with low relative heights were better
suited for the more thermally stressed horizontal substrates.
In our study, we observed similar relative height differences between Tetraclita at different
sites as well as on substrates with different orientations. Hopkins barnacles on vertical substrates
are taller and narrower than Breakwater barnacles with a vertical orientation. If, as Yip and Shin
(1990) suggested, a low relative height indicates a morphology acclimated to a high temperature
stress, then we would expect the Breakwater site to be a more thermally stressful environment.
Because of higher wave exposure, Hopkins receives more spray and is likely cooler than the
Breakwater. Also, Tetraclita inhabited a vertical range which extended higher in the rocky
intertidal at Hopkins compared to Breakwater, which correlates with the more abundant spray at
Hopkins.
