width of the aperture (= opercular width), the maximum and minimum basal diameter, and the
height of each barnacle. Relative Height was then calculated as the ratio of height to average basal
diameter and Operuclar Exposure Index as opercular width divided by operuclar depth. We
hypothesized that since whelks must access the opercular plates in order to prey on barnacles,
deeply recessed opercular plates might protect against whelk predation, while a wider opercular
aperture might permit easier whelk access. The opercular exposure index is thus an indicator of
susceptibility to predation. The orientation of substratum and the direction of exposure were also
recorded for each measured barnacle. This step was repeated until we measured ten barnacles for
every meter along the transect. We sampled two transects at Breakwater and three transects at
Hopkins.
Field Experiment
In each of our two study locations, we selected three plots in the center of the Tetraclita
zone. The Hopkins plots were 1.2 meters above MLLW, and the Breakwater plots were 0.7
meters above MLLW. The plots were chosen to provide enough flat substrate to accept a square
.0625-m“ stainless steel cage. Each plot contained 24 to 30 Tetraclita, and we cleared all other
barnacles from the plots. Ten whelks were placed in each cage.
Once we selected the experimental sites, we recorded the same morphological data as
described above for all Tetraclita present. To test whether a large opercular depth offers any
defense against predation by whelks, one-third of the Tetraclita in each cage were selected at
random to have their shells filed. Using an iron file, we filed the lip of each shell until the edges
were flush with the opercular plates. Filing removed the shell above the operculum, reducing the
opercular depth to zero. To ascertain whether the filing process itself acted as an unanticipated
signal inviting whelk predation, we filed on the side of one-third of the barnacles without
significantly changing the shell shape. The remaining third of the Tetraclita acted as
