Our temperature experiment suggests that the relationship between temperature,
morphology, and orientation is unclear. While we found that tall, narrow barnacles exhibit a
higher heat flux and maintain a lower temperature on horizontal substrate, we were unable to test
if the same were true for vertical substrate.
It appeared that conductive heat flux from the substrate provided the majority of the heat
acting on the barnacle, so that a more insulated shell would fail to pass this heat effectively to the
air. The higher insulation does not limit conductive heat from the rock because the barnacle does
not have a basal plate and is uninsulated at its base. Our experimental barnacle with low relative
height had a thicker shell than the relatively taller barnacle, and this greater thickness may be
responsible for the reduced the heat transfer coefficient. This corroborates the findings of Yip and
Shin (1990) who found that a thicker shell insulated the barnacle more. In our experiment, the
shorter, thicker barnacle maintained a higher internal temperature when the substrate was warm
relative to the ambient air temperature. Because lethal temperatures are most likely to occur
where the substrate is hotter than the air temperature (M.W. Denny, personal communication), it
appears that the shorter barnacle is not better suited thermally to the horizontal substrate, as Yip
and Shin (1990) suggested. Our observations show similar patterns to Yip and Shin (1990), but
the conductive heat flux we observed leads us to question their conclusion.
Ultimately, a more refined model will be necessary before Tetraclita relative height can be
understood as an adaptation to heat stress. At this time we can only conclude that heat flux varies
with the size and shape of the barnacle, and the shape varies with substrate orientation.
Conclusions regarding the functional relationship between the thermal environment, shell
morphology, and substrate orientation will require further study.
Beyond any of the influences we have explored, there exist a variety of factors that also
could have an effect on optimal Tetraclita shell morphology. The temperature effects may be
