unmanipulated control barnacles. The whelks used in both sites were collected from Hopkins,
since there were no whelks at Breakwater. Over the course of four weeks, we removed the cages
once a week and recorded the number of experimental barnacles that had been eaten.
Heat Flux Experiment
To test if heat flux varied with the shape of the barnacle, we selected two barnacles
representing extremes in the morphological range. One barnacle had a large relative height (.827;
i.e. tall and narrow, see above). The other barnacle had a low relative height (.549; or short and
broad). We removed the barnacle tissue from each shell and glued the opercular plates in place.
We then filed the bottom of the shells so that they were flat enough to make an effective seal to a
flat concrete substrate. The interface of barnacle and rock was coated with KY Jelly to prevent
undue heat loss. We calculated the post-filed surface area of the bottom of the shell by tracing the
barnacle’s base and cutting out a piece of paper corresponding to the bottom of each shell. These
basal areas were then weighed and compared to the mass of a piece of paper of a known area. We
measured the volume of each shell by placing the inverted shell on a microbalance, taring to zero,
and subsequently filling the barnacle to capacity with water.
Äfter determining each barnacle’s internal volume, we drilled a small hole in the side of
each shell, inserted a thermocouple into the center of the shell, sealed it with silicone sealant, and
measured the distance between the thermocouple and the bottom of the shell. Once the sealant
dried, we filled each shell with a solution made from one teaspoon gelatin and one-half cup water.
We left the gelatin solution to firm up in a refrigerator for 12 hours. The gelatin solution, being
mostly water, approximated the thermal properties of the barnacle's internal structures.
The shells were placed within 15 cm of each other on a concrete slab in full sunlight on
Hopkins. Each shell was placed directly over two thermocouples, which had been inserted into
the concrete block at a known depth. A third thermocouple was placed between the barnacle and
