Introduction
Predation and heat stress are two factors in an array of physical and biological influences
that determine the optimal morphology of an organism in its environment. Morphological
variation within a population may suggest different conditions among microenvironments that
favor one shape over another. For organisms in the rocky intertidal zone, temperature stress and
predation have been posited to be significant selective pressures in determining variation in
morphology. Lively (1986) suggested that predatory whelks influenced the morphology of their
barnacle prey, such that chemical cues from the whelks caused Chthamalus to assume a "bent'
morphology that protected it from drilling by whelks. The morphological variation was
maintained by the fact that, in the absence of whelks, the bent morphology reduced fecundity.
Hence, morphology is often a compromise between contradicting environmental pressures.
In Monterey Bay, California, the barnacle Tetraclita squamosa rubescens exhibits a high
degree of morphological variability. One characteristic that varies significantly is the distance
between the barnacle'’s opercular plates and the lip of the shell aperture (hereafter referred to as
opercular depth). The whelk Nucella emarginata preys on Tetraclita by sitting on the aperture of
a barnacle and drilling through the opercular plates to access the internal tissue. Thus, deeply
recessed opercular plates may provide a refuge from whelk predation. In areas of high whelk
abundance, Tetraclita may benefit in a manner similar to the bent Chthamalus of Lively (1986) by
having a shape that decreases the success of whelk predation.
Within Monterey Bay, another highly variable aspect of Tetraclita shell morphology is the
height of the barnacle in relation to its basal diameter. Some are tall and narrow while others are
short and broad-based. Yip and Shin (1990) observed similar variation among Tetraclita
squamosa japonica in the Bay of Hong Kong. They hypothesized that broad Tetraclita were better
insulated and therefore more resistant to temperature stress. However, in the absence of excessive
