23 seconds, range=17 seconds to 12 minutes 41 seconds, n=3), 1 subadult
pair, and 1 subadult/juvenile pair. No significant difference in times was
found with Mann-Whitney.
Pairs of males rolled in 15/20 encounters, or 75% of all encounters.
with a mean time of 3 minutes 55 seconds (range = 7 seconds to 12
minutes 41 seconds). No durations for encounters between females could
be calculated due to inaccurate timing (two female/female encounters
were observed over the course of the study). Again, Mann-Whitney showed
the only significant difference in duration to be between males and
unidentified pairs (X=16 seconds, range= 8-24 seconds, n=3. p-0.0270).
General Pattern of Rolling:
Rolling often began with nose-to-nose contact at the surface, either
with the two seals facing one another or with one seal stretching his head
back to touch noses with a seal close behind him. In some cases, the seals
instead made eye contact at some level in the water column. One of the
seals would then lunge at the other and rolling would proceed. Sometimes
there was no initial eye or nose contact but one seal would just lunge at
the other, with no warning. This was especially common in seals pausing
between bouts. For example, in one encounter two seals (male) separated
after a bout, one sinking to the bottom, the other rising to the surface and
scanning the area. The seal on the surface suddenly swam down and bit its
partner on the throat; they then swam off together and resumed rolling.
Another way in which rolling may begin is one seal may be swimming past
another, and the other seal may lunge at it and initiate rolling; however, it
is difficult to determine whether the two seals had been rolling that day
and temporarily separated, or whether they are two new partners.
Once rolling begins, the two seals rarely change partners. I have only
seen two seals rolling change partners once in five weeks of observation;
two males were rolling head-to-tail when another seal swam past. One of
the pair lunged at the passing seal and began rolling with it; the original
partner did not try to resume rolling. Although 1 sometimes saw rolling
seals head thrust or snap at other seals that got very close, this is the
