rolling pair has sometimes startled and stopped at my approach. Usually,
however, the pair has paid very little attention to me, and 1 often had to
get out of the way as they rolled towards me. Sullivan studied rolling
from land; much of rolling occurs underwater, where he could not see it, so
he may have been timing repeated bouts as one due to difficulty in
determining an end. This would result in bouts of longer length. Many of
the interactions I observed would not be visible from the surface, and
would not be included in Sullivan's data pool; this could also account for
differences in timing.
Wilson (1974) described rolling in P.vitulina vitulina juveniles, which
she classified as all seals between six months and 5 years of age. She
noted that rolling bouts rarely lasted more that three minutes, and
resulted in either separation or more rolling, a pattern 1 noted for both
adults and younger individuals. She also noted that in rolling between
"adolescents" (subadults in my research), one of the two sometimes had
his penis extruded. During rolling l also sometimes noted the same sexual
element; this both demonstrates the development of the behavior with age.
saw very little juvenile (i.e. 1 - 2 years) rolling over the course of my
study; juveniles were more wary of me than any other age group, and might
not roll if I was present. It is also possible that juveniles do not roll as
frequently as subadults and adults, in which the behavior was well
developed. Pups were just being weaned at the termination of my study,
and had just begun to form groups; no rolling between pups was observed.
Of the types of rolling  observed, head to head horizontal rolling
had never been described in the literature. Head to head twisting has
been described by Beier and Wartzok(1979) as synchronous spiralling in
mating behavior of adult P.largha, a close relative of P.vitulina : "Male and
female synchronously spiral around a common longitudinal axes as they
swim, frequently surfacing". It has also been described by Renouf and
Lawson(1986) as occuring for all ages, Venables and Venables (1955,
1957, 1959) as occuring in adults, and Sullivan (1981) as occuring in
adults and subadults of P. vitulina, in association with head to tail
rolling. The Venables described head to tail vertical rolling and
