biting, but may also frequently consist of body biting or no biting, as well
as head thrusting. Intensity varies widely, from mild(no biting) to rough
(frequent and aggressive biting).
Head to tail vertical rolling was the most common type of rolling,
23/59 or 38.98% of all rolling. Although it was also seen most commonly
in adult males, it was also seen in all other age classes. Adult pairs
participated in 13/23 or 56.5% of all incidents; of these incidents, 11
pairs were exclusively male, 1 a male with a seal of unidentified sex, and
in one both seals were of unidentified sex. Male adult/subadult pairs were
involved in 5 incidents, subadult pairs in two cases (one male, the other
male/unidentified), and male subadult/juvenile pairs were observed in two
cases. Head to tail vertical rolling was seen in association with all
types of rolling, including mounting, and was sometimes associated with
rumbling, foreflipper-slapping, and bubble-blowing.
Stomach to Stomach Mounting:
In stomach to stomach mounting, one seal clutches another
ventrally with its foreflippers, often biting its throat (see Figure 6). The
two seals are usually aligned on a horizontal plane, although they may be
aligned at a slight angle. The seal being grasped usually freezes; rarely it
will foreflipper scratch its opponent. Öften the two seals freeze in
position and sink down to the bottom substrate, where they may remain
for one minute or more. In males, one of the pair often had its penis
extruded or showed swelling along its penile line. This interaction was
commonly mild in intensity.
Stomach to stomach mounting comprised 9/59, or 15.25%, of all
incidents. This behavior was most often displayed by pairs of adult males.
7/9, or 78%, of all incidents involved pairs of adults; 4 of these were
exclusively male pairs, 2 incidents involved a male with a seal of
unidentified sex, and in 1 case the pair was female. 2 incidents of adult/
subadult male interactions were also observed.
The female behavior differed from that of the male in that the
mounting female did not grasp tightly but scratched at its opponents head
