the birth of the first pup, at the end of lactation. I began to see healthy
pups without their mothers in the middle of May, which should mark the
beginning of estrus in female harbor seals in California. Unfortunately
this study ended soon afterwards, affording little opportunity to witness
related male-female interaction. Sullivan(1979), in studies on rolling in
harbor seals in Humboldt, CA, reported no male-female rolling was
observed until June and July; he also reported rolling was most frequently
observed in July and August. However, I never saw any male roll with a
known female, and was unable to note any increase in rolling over the
course of this study. It would be interesting to continue the study of
rolling behavior over a longer period of time, at Hopkins Marine Station, to
compare any trends found to those of Sullivan.
Sullivan (1981) also found that adult males averaged 5 minutes per
bout, and that the "winner" displayed by forefipper-slapping or lobtailing
in 33 out of 39 times. I found a mean bout time for adult males of 1
minute 11 seconds, and only saw foreflipper slapping in 4 out of 47 bouts.
Of these 4 cases, 3 occurred when one of the seals swam away.
determining a "winner"; in the fourth, one seal foreflipper-slapped the
water when its rolling partner was still present (no winner determined)
However, Sullivan did show similar trends in the ratio of adult males
rolling to that of subadult males: he observed a ratio of 39 adult pairs to
5 subadult pairs, while the ratio 1 observed was 30 adult pairs to 1
subadult pair.
There are several possibilities for this difference in results. Sullivan
found a mean bout time of 2 minutes for pairs of subadult males, which is
closer to the mean time l found for pairs of adult males. I determined age
by size in the water, which magnifies size; due to this magnification and
the small difference in size between age classes, there may be some
overlap between age classes. However, Sullivan noted a similar ratio of
adults to subadults rolling. It is also possible that my presence in the
water with the seals shortened the times of bouts. Although seals at
Hopkins Marine Station are more accustomed to people than most harbor
seals, they still retain some of their species's notorious wariness, and a
