of the pair in this state at a time. The Venables described coition as the
"male" mounting the "female“ and grasping her with his foreflippers,
sometimes biting her neck, the pair sinking to the bottom where they
remained "in fairly static coition posture for 1 to 3 minutes". I observed
this exact behavior, but both members of the pair were male. In one case a
male with his penis extruded mounted back to stomach to another male and
made thrusting movements with his pelvic region. Beier and Wartzok
(1979) demonstrated in their study of captive spotted seal mating
behavior the difficulty of determining intromission in field studies of
mating; even looking into "calm, clear water", an observer on a cliff face
would not be able to determine whether actually mating was occurring,
and could misinterpret malelmale behavior as male/female. Backhouse
and Hewer (1957) observed homosexual activity in male grey seals during
mating season and Johnson and Johnson (1977) suggested rolling was an
exclusively male activity, accompanied by mounting and penile extrusion.
Sullivan (1981) also noted males rolling and "riding" one another. I only
observed male pairs mounting each other in a sexual manner (the
female/female mounting observed was not sexual in nature).
Rolling has been observed by many researchers, in seals of all ages and
sexes, and in many contexts. Many suggestions have been made as to its
significance in the social system of the harbor seal, explaining it as
dominance establishment, mating behavior, erotic play unrelated to
mating, or a combination of dominance establishment and mating behavior.
However, all previous studies were done from land, which made
identification of the age and sex of seals in the water difficult, as well as
description of their aquatic behavior. Underwater observation facilitates
both sex identification and close observation, and 1 can verify both the
exclusive male activity and the strong resemblance of the mounting
between males to copulation. This suggests that rolling is a form of
dominance establishment with a pattern of development seen in behavior
from juvenile play to adult agonistic encounters.
Sullivan (1979) postulated that rolling was both dominance
establishment between adult males and a form of pre-copulatory behavioi
