only time l ever saw partner-switching result from it.
During an encounter or even during a bout, a rolling pair often switched
between different types of rolling, blending them into a constant flow of
movement (except mounting, which involved little movement and usually
terminated or made up an entire bout). One of the pair sometimes blew
bubbles during or after a bout. Sometimes one of the pair would have his
penis extruded or bulge along the penile line during a bout. This was most
common with mounting behavior. However, never more than one of a pair
extruded his penis or showed this swelling along the penile line during
rolling.
Äfter a bout, the rolling partners usually stayed together. Sometimes
one of the pair would rumble, an underwater vocalization behavior in
which a male rolls onto its back, parallel to the bottom, and produces a
"loud burst of sound, like a pop, followed by a low frequency rumbling roar
(Shaw 1990). Sometimes another male will position himself beside the
rumbling male so that their heads are very close, called attending (for a
full review of rumbling see Shaw 1990). However, the rolling partner
never attended the rumbling seal and the position was not the
stereotypical position near the bottom; instead the rumbler swam in a half
circle on his back while rumbling. Öften rolling would resume after he
rumbled.
Partners often swam off together, or went to the surface and scanned
the area before resuming rolling. Sometimes they would swim in different
directions, however, or just one would swim off. On three occasions when
one partner swam off the other foreflipper slapped the water repeatedly.
On a fourth occasion, however, a seal foreflipper-slapped the water while
his partner looked on.
When other seals were seen in the proximity of a rolling pair, they
demonstrated two primary reactions: one was to watch the pair at
whatever level in the water column they were occupying; the second was
to freeze in an upright position and sink down to the bottom, from which
the seal either watched or burrowed under eel grass or kelp, whichever
was available. Females commonly demonstrated this sinking behavior, as
