substrate; algal growth and surf grass are the prevailing cover. Seal
Rocks is one of two major haul-out sites in the refuge for over 100 seals
of both sexes and all age classes; the other haul-out is near the adjacent
Bird Rocks. The Seal Rocks area was chosen for underwater observation
due to accessibility and relative protection from wave action. The
observational area has an average depth of about 3 m at high tide, with a
maximum depth of 10 m in the deepest part during high high tides. At low
tide approximately 50 seals haul out on Seal Rocks; as the tide rises some
move into the surrounding waters while others migrate to the Bird Rocks
haul-out.
This study was carried out by snorkeling throughout the area, following
an established pattern and regularly scanning the surface and listening for
any signs of rolling in other parts of the study site. Data was recorded on
underwater paper mounted on a plexiglass clipboard. In the first portion
of the study, observation periods were randomized for time and tidal level;
it was soon noted that rolling did not take place at low tide but was
frequent at high tide, and from then on most observation was carried out
between midtide and high tide. No observations were conducted at night
due to personal safety considerations and poor visibility; in a past study,
no seals were seen in the area or on the haul-out during night sessions
(Shaw 1990). Foreflipper slapping, a behavior in which a seal smacks the
surface of the water with the flexor surface of its extended foreflipper,
producing a loud sound like a rifle-shot, could occasionally be heard at
night; however, because this sound can travel over distances of 100 m it
was difficult to determine the location, and it was a not sufficient reason
to enter the water. Harbor seals are reportedly night foragers, and would
thus be absent from the haul-out; supporting this, seals could be seen
returning from the kelp beds early in the morning (Teri Nicholson, pers.
comm.).
Time, weather, tidal level, surface conditions, water visibility, and
estimated depth of the deepest point in the area were recorded during each
period of observation in an effort to correlate rolling with physical
conditions, as well as to reveal any possible biases in data (such as no
