Sullivan described head to tail horizontal rolling; Bishop(1967),
Renouf and Lawson, and Wilson (1974) (juveniles) all described head to
tail rolling without defining any plane of orientation to separate the two
variants. Mounting back to stomach has been observed by Beier and
Wartzok, Bishop, Renouf and Lawson, Venables and Venables, and Sullivan,
directly associated with head to tail rolling in all but the work of
Renouf and Lawson, who labeled head to tail rolling as another type of
social play. However, only Beier and Wartzok noted stomach to stomach
mounting, in P.largha.
Sullivan (1981) and Venables and Venables (1955, 1957, 1959) both
described rolling between adult and subadult males and females; Allen
(1985) also noted " seals engaged in aquatic, precopulatory play" as
described by the Venables and unsuccessful mounting of females by males.
Bishop (1967) also saw males and females rolling, but noted male pairs or
female pairs in such play with equal frequency, and described all
individuals as immature. He did, however, note one pair of seals
"apparently copulating" in the water, the larger grasping the smaller with
its foreflippers, "rolling languidly“, submerging, surfacing, and drifting.
Bishop also witnessed brief, aggressive "breeding encounters“ on land,
which he contrasted to rolling. Sullivan saw no copulation in water or on
land; Allen observed four copulations over two days, all on land. These land
copulations are unusual as harbor seals breed in the water (Riedman 1990).
The Venables saw copulation after rolling and bubble-blowing in "calm,
clear water". For a review of literature on harbor seal mating, see
Thompson (1988).
Both Bishop and the Venables listed the seals as "pairs", but it was
unclear how sex of each pair member in the water was verified from land.
The Venables had no explanation of their methodology for sexing seals in
water other than "sometimes one of the rolling pair will have the penis
extruded" (Venables and Venables1957); the other member of the pair was
assumed to be female. I often observed one member of a pair with its
penis exposed in rolling and mounting, but the pairs 1 observed were
exclusively male. It is interesting to note that l never saw more than one
