rolling viewed in water due to poor visibility). Rolling was defined as any
behavior involving tail-chasing, mounting, twisting, and/or biting in a
stereotypical fashion. One bout was the time from which two seals began
rolling until they paused, even momentarily. An encounter was all bouts
seen between a rolling pair until they either separated or were no longer
seen rolling. Agonistic behaviors were classified both by location and
length. Bites were classified as held (3 seconds or longer), actual, or
attempted; bites were also categorized by position into throat bite, neck
bite, tail bite, or body bite (any bite on trunk of body) Aggressive
behaviors such as head thrusting and foreflipper scratching were also
recorded. Location of bout, sex, age, and any individual characteristics
were noted.
Sex was determined by penile line and opening in the male and lack of
penile line and opening and presence of teats (if visible) in the female.
Age was determined by size and coloration, as well as sexual development.
Individuals seen rolling were characterized by any prominent scars or
other identifying marks, as well as grey or brown coloration, sex, and age.
RESULTS
Conditions:
Rolling was observed most often at high tide and during overcast
weather. Surface conditions and time did not seem to have any effect on
rolling. Rolling occurred when the deepest part of the study site had a
depth of at least 3 m, and when visibility was over 1.5 m. Rolling was
never seen at low tide, and was observed in all locations; however, it was
seen most frequently to the left of Seal Rocks or at the farthest point of
the study site towards Cannery Beach. The behavior was observed at all
levels in the water column, though some types of rolling were found more
frequently at specific levels, as will be discussed later. No trends of
increase or decrease were seen in rolling over the five week period. It
was seen in 18 out of 33 observation periods, or 54.5%. However, these
observation periods were not of equal length, but varied according to
presence or absence of rolling.
