INTRODUCTION
Rolling is an aquatic interaction between two seals involving head to
tail somersaulting together, biting, twisting vertically in a head to head
position while exchanging blows to the throat and neck, and mounting.
Several theories have been developed as to its purpose: dominance
establishment (Sullivan 1981); pre-copulatory mating behavior (Venables
and Venables 1955, 1957, 1959), (Beier and Wartzok1979); and play
between immature seals (Bishop 1967), (Wilson 1974) or between seals of
all ages (Renouf and Lawson 1986). However, there has been little
agreement about the sexes of the two seals involved or the ages at which
rolling occurs; rolling has also never been broken down into types, and
descriptions of the behavior sometimes disagree on its components. Much
of this confusion is due to the sole study of this behavior from land, from
which the identification of the sexes of participants in the water is
difficult; it is also almost impossible to accurately describe or time the
behavior from the surface, as much of it occurs underwater.
P. vitulina is normally very wary of humans; researchers have to
construct blinds and observe behavior from great distances with field
glasses so as not to frighten the animal. The harbor seal population at
Hopkins Marine Station is very unusual in that the animals have become
fairly accustomed to people and will allow divers and snorklers to observe
them in the water. This allows underwater study of aquatic behavior
close at hand, without any of the usual encumberments or distance
handicaps of land studies, and provides a special opportunity to observe
rolling behavior in the environment in which it occurs, facilitating sex
identification and close examination of all types of rolling as well as the
behaviors associated with it.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
This study was conducted from April 23 to May 29, 1991, at Hopkins
Marine Station in Pacific Grove, CA. Approximately 37 hours were spent in
the water observing seals, in the area between Seal Rocks and Agassiz
Beach (see Figure 1). The habitat consists of granite rock and sand
