between females and males which allowed females to further assess a
male who had won a rolling bout. However, I did not see any male/female
rolling over the course of my study, which leads me to believe that rolling
is an exclusively male activity. Sullivan did not observe any rolling
between males and females until June and July, whereas this study
terminated in June; according to this, I should have observed male/female
rolling in the next month of observation. However, it is interesting to note
that females were never seen engaged in the play resembling head to
tailing rolling or head to head twisting described as mating behavior by
Venables and Venables (1955, 1957, 1959) and Sullivan (1981) in
P.vitulina, or Beier and Wartzok(1979) in P. largha.
Younger animals often play at adult sexual or aggressive behavior; for
example, male elephant seal juveniles may be seen holding mock battles
and practicing copulatory behaviors upon one another (Riedman 1990).
Although males of many species are more frequently observed to practice
copulatory behaviors than females, it seems odd that males but not
females would rehearse such a complex series of behavior. Wilson (1974)
observed rolling play between juveniles and subadults both in the wild and
in captivity. She did not note sexual identity of seals in her study of wild
P. vitulina, except to note one sometimes had his penis extruded; however,
in her study of captive seals the males were observed to roll most often
(one of the females would sometimes roll with a male for less than one
minute). Wilson had also noted that although both juveniles and
adolescents rolled, juvenile rolling had no sexual components, which also
suggests a pattern of behavioral development in males. I observed very
little rolling in juveniles and subadults, but this could be due to the
smaller proportion of younger seals to adults, especially as the Hopkins
Marine Station population has just become a breeding population in the
past few years, as well as to the general wariness of juveniles.
A year-round study of rolling noted that the frequency of rolling
increased during the mating season and disappeared at the end of the
season (Sullivan 1981). M.A. Bigg (1969) found that testosterone in adult
and subadult males increased in March through November, which coincides
