with the mating season; this increase may both account for the aggression
of rolling and the mounting attempts and penile extrusion in adult males
seen during this study. Harbor seals are slightly polygynous; since they
breed in water, which is boundaryless, they cannot establish territories or
control females, and must establish dominance in some other way
(Sullivan 1981). Aggressive pinnipeds establish dominance where they
breed (Riedman 1990); for example, elephant seals have been well
documented as breeding and fighting on land. Harbor seals breed in the
water, and should thus establish dominance in the water, where they are
mobile and agile, rather than on land, where they are slow and awkward.
Rolling is both the most aggressive and the most vigorous behavior in
which l ever observed harbor seals participating in the water; the biting
and chasing can become very rough. although 1 never saw blood drawn.
Although harbor seals mature sexually between 5-7 years of age, they
may not become socially mature for several years after that (Riedman
1990). Over the course of this study, a small group of large, scarred males
was seen to haul-out daily in the Bird Rocks area, frequently carrying
bloody marks in the morning (Teri Nicholson, personal communication).
This could mean that dominance is being established in some way other
than rolling. However, it is just as likely that these older males are
rolling at night or away from the haul-out, and the males 1 observed
rolling most often were younger adults which had not established a stable
dominance pattern or joined the dominance hierarchy. This could also
explain the occasional extrusion of a male's penis during rolling; if these
seals have not yet integrated into the dominance hierarchy, they are
probably not yet mating, and thus might show homosexual behavior. It is
interesting to note that I sometimes saw rolling in association with
rumbling, a behavior Shaw (1990) connected with non-violent dominance
establishment. Rolling is probably a form of dominance establishment
which shows a developmental pattern in males, and provides a way of
establishing breeding privledges in the three-dimensional, boundaryless
aquatic environment.
