and Koehn, 1988). When this discovery was made, more research began looking into the
distributions of the blue mussels. It was discovered that M. galloprovincialis, native to the
Mediterranean Sea, had replaced the native blue mussel, M. trossulus, over much of its range
(Suchanek, 1997). When M. galloprovincialis was introduced to southern California less than a
century ago, it was able to successfully outcompete M. trossulus and completely displace them in
many regions. Their slow invasion northward led to the current hybrid zone in northern
California, which extends from Monterey Bay, California, to Cape Mendocino, California
(Rawson et al., 1999). In the hybrid zone, M. trossulus, M. galloprovincialis, and their hybrids
are found, while north of the zone, only M. trossulus are present and south of the zone, only M.
galloprovincialis are found (Bierne et al., 2003).
At present times and in their native ranges, M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis inhabit
very different habitats with different physicochemical attributes. In the northeaster Pacific, M.
trossulus is found in bays and rocky intertidal habitats. In this habitat range, individuals are
exposed to cool waters and, especially during winter rainy periods, to low salinity environments.
M. galloprovincialis, however, is native to the warm and more saline waters of the
Mediterranean Sea (Fields et al., 2006).
It has been suggested that differences in temperature adaptation may account for the
successful invasion and the formation of the current hybrid zone. There have been many
physiological studies which support this idea. Cardiac function has been studied by Braby and
Somero (2006b) who found differences in basal heart rate, as well as the temperatures at which
heart-beat was inhibited. These differences support the hypothesis that M. trossulus is adapted to
lower temperatures than M. galloprovincialis. Furthermore, Hofmann and Somero (1996) found
significant differences between the induction temperatures of the heat-shock response. M.
