ABSTRACT:
Previous studies have demonstrated that physiological and biochemical factors, including
adaptation to temperature and salinity, may contribute to the success of an invasive species in
competition with a native species. Mytilus galloprovincialis, a blue mussel native to the
Mediterranean, is a successful invader along the west coast of California, out-competing the
native blue mussel, Mytilus trossulus, over much of its range south of the San Francisco Bay.
Previous research has studied cardiac function, enzyme biochemistry, and gene expression as
factors that have led to M. galloprovincialis' successful invasion. Enzyme biochemistry,
however, has only been studied in the laboratory, using specimens acclimated to common
conditions. The objective of my study was to gain an accurate depiction of potential for
metabolic function in field-acclimatized congeners of blue mussels collected from a site where
both species and their hybrids occur. Estimates of potential metabolic rate were obtained by
assaying the activity of two enzymes that are important in ATP production: malate
dehydrogenase (MDH) and citrate synthase (CS). Specimens were collected from Bodega Bay
harbor, genotyped to their respected species (including hybrids), and enzyme assays were
conducted. M. trossulus had a significantly higher activity for both MDH and CS, relative to M.
galloprovincialis (one-way ANOVA tests). The hybrids' MDH and CS activities fell between
those of M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis. To determine if size-dependence (“scaling") of
metabolic rate contributed to these differences, I used linear regression analysis to determine the
relationship between body size (length of shell) and enzymatic activity. When all genotypes'
MDH and CS activities and mussel size were compared, a significant negative correlation was
evident. When the species were analyzed separately, however, the correlations were not
significant. The higher activities of MDH and CS in M. trossulus are consistent with this
