remains to be determined from these data. However, further genotypic analysis of populations
from diverse thermal environments might shed light on this issue.
Analyses of enzymatic activity versus body length in which all specimens of all three
genotypes are grouped in a single analysis for MDH or CS showed significant size-dependence
of activity. However, when each enzyme was analyzed separately for each species, only a single
regression was significant, CS for M. trossulus. This indicates that the differences I found
between genotypes were not influenced by size-related variation in enzymatic activity.
The most important conclusion drawn from my data is that the enzymatic activities 1
measured in field-acclimatized specimens support the conclusions of previous studies that
examined physiological differences between M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis. Namely, M.
trossulus appears to be better adapted to low temperatures than M. galloprovincialis because of
its higher intrinsic levels of enzymatic activity. All observed physiological differences between
the two species support the hypothesis that the native west coast species, M. trossulus, has
evolved adaptations to low temperature that are not found in the Mediterranean congener, M.
galloprovincialis. Differences in their thermal biology may thus be at least a partial explanation
for the pattern of invasion noted for M. galloprovincialis. The potential for further northward
spread of the invasive could be determined by climate change, as rising temperatures might favor
the invasive species. However, Braby and Somero (2006a, b) showed that M. galloprovincialis
is out-competed by the native species in habitats with low and variable salinity, so climate-
related factors such as precipitation could affect the further expansion of the invasion.
Furthermore, my study confirms results from previous research on enzyme biochemistry
in Mytilus (Lockwood, unpublished). The data obtained from Lockwood’s laboratory
acclimation studies also show higher enzyme activities for M. trossulus. This shows that in-field
