Introduction:
Research pertaining to the soft deep-sea coral Anthomastus ritterii (Alcyonacea:
Alcyonidae), which inhabits the rock face and sediment cover of the Monterey Canvon.
has been slight, despite its discovery nearly 90 years ago. [Abbott, 19871. This
octocoral lives as a colony with two distinct polyp forms: large feeding polyps called
autozooids and small bump-like polyps known as siphonizooids, which serve to
circulate water through the colony. The gastrovascular cavities of the polyps extend
through a common lobe called the capitulum. [Nutting, 1913), allowing for a common
nutrient pool. The portion of the autozooids which emerge from the capitulum are
collectively known as the anthocodia. [Hyman, 1940).
In response to the lack of study on this coral, Riise undertook a basic
behavioural analysis on A. ritterii. Suggested in the course of his study was a possible
circadian or circatidal rhythm associated with anthocodia and capitulum contraction,
fairly routine behaviour exhibited by the coral. [Riise, 1990). Though similar rhythms
have been found in other marine species-sea pens (Mori, 1961), anemone [Buisson,
1988), various bivalve species, and numerous higher organisms including shoreline
crabs-no such rhythm has been upturned in a non-littoral species. This makes Riise's
suggestion tremendously fascinating; indeed, the habitat of A. ritterii would not seem to
hold the possibility, nor the need, of an endogenous rhythm. Because the colonies
reside in a benthic habitat, with a depth range of 210m to 1236m in Monterey Canyon,
many would not be affected be diel light or temperature changes to any appreciable
degree, nor would they be affected by wave exposure, which are predominant
environmental time cues for circadian and circatidal rhythms respectively. Even more
startling is the fact that neighbouring colonies are often seen out of phase with each
other, some with retracted anthocodia while others have extended anthocodia.
The force driving my research was to verify, in part, Riise's hypothesis of a
circadian or circatidal rhythm, and also to attempt to alter the periods of the colonies
Page 2.
