The picture which this series of experiments presents is extremely difficult to
decipher: a benthic species which within individual colonies maintains a carefully
controlled endogenous cycle of behaviour, but which does not coordinate its activities
neither with environmental cues nor the activity cycle of its neighbors.
The deep-sea aspect of A. ritterii's behaviour is intriguing alone. Little has been
discovered concerning an endogenous rhythm in a creature inhabiting the region below
the intertidal zone. Without light exposure or radical temperature change, one would
hardly expect evidence of a rhythmic behaviour. Notable however, is Willows'
suggestion of circatidal behaviour in the nudibranch Tritonia diamedia, which inhabits
the same depths as A. ritterii. This activity rhythm involves orientation with the Earth's
magnetic pole according to the phase of the tidal cycle. T. diamedia has been implicated
as a possible predator of A. ritterii, which could suggest that the rhythm of one evolved
in response to the other. For the nudibranch, the circatidal rhythm could prepare it for
the increased availability of food, while for the coral, an endogenous rhythm could helr
avoid anticipated predation.
The lack of response to controlled environmental stimuli is also troubling.
While we could postulate reasons for a biological clock which quickly reacted to light
or feeding cycles, reasons come to mind much more slowly in the unresponsive case of
A. ritterii. Light and feeding are generally the two most powerful Zeitgebers, which
seem to have little effect in altering the periods of the coral, certainly failing in
entraining them to a 24 or 25 hour cycle. Generally, circadian or circatidal rhythms are
explained as adaptations which aid in anticipating environmental change. For example,
the anemone exhibits both circadian and circatidal rhythms in contraction, anticipating
the sharp change to a bright, hot, desiccating environment devoid of food. [Buisson,
1988]. The tidal rhythm of plankton migration, as well, is thought to have evolved as
predator avoidance, and seemingly exerts a rhythmic effect on creatures well up the
Page 8.
