food chain from plankton. [Cloudsley-Thompson, 1961] Here though, the rhythm
does not approximate any known geophysical rhythm, and it is difficult to view this
rhythm as an adaptation for the benthic habitat of A. ritterii.
Most troubling of the details of the periodicity of A. ritterii is that colonies are
asynchronous in their contraction/expansion cycles. The variance in circadian or
circatidal rhythms for individual organisms has been reported at most, at four hours
from 24 or 25 hours under constant conditions. [Parker, 1974). Were the endogenous
rhythm of A. ritterii to be termed circadian, there would be an individual organismal
variance of at least 14 hours. The adaptive value of such an endogenous rhythm which
does not even roughly coincide with a neighbouring colony is at first highly
questionable. One possibility explaining this circumstance is the fact that variable
periods might avoid competition. Imagining two neighbouring colonies, one can
readily see the advantage of asynchrony in feeding times to avoid competition. One can
also posit that the clock of the Anthomastus, unlike higher organisms, has not evolved,
or perhaps does not need, a complex entailing an environmental time cue processor,
and works simply on the basis of a homeostat. This homeostatic control would explain
Riise's observation that the colonies spend 60% of their time open and 40% of their
time closed, as well as the individual variability in period length.
The juvenile study also poses some interesting questions. The excessively
short period of the juvenile with respect to the adults can be explained in three possible
ways. The first is that the juvenile has a period which is on the lower end of the
distribution of possible periods, which was simply not reflected in the period lengths of
the adult colonies. Another possibility is that the organisms have a size-related
mechanism of retraction. Were the mechanism of retraction more efficient in a smaller
organism, one might expect the juvenile to have such a period; this possibility, though,
is contradicted by the presence of smaller adults which have much longer periods, 36
and 38.8 hours. A final possibility is that there exists a correlation between maturity
Page 9.
