EFFECT OF SALINITY SHOCK ON THE 58 KD AND 48 KD PROTEINS RECOGNIZED BY
ANTI-HSP 60: Figure 8 shows the western blot analysis of the heat shock
proteins present in different conditions of salinity shock. P. squamatus are
thought to naturally reside in sea water at a salinity of 33.2 parts per thousand
(ppt). Salinities of 10 ppt above and below this value were tested to see if a
heat shock response was induced. In the figure, the first and third lanes
contain the proteins from the shocked animals. Lanes two and four contain
the instant ocean and the normal control respectively. The fifth lane contains
the HSP 60 molecular weight standard. Analysis of the darkness of each
protein band reveals that the levels of protein that cross-react with the anti-
HSP 60 antibody increase in both of the shock conditions relative to the
controls. This trend is observed in both the higher molecular weight (58 KD)
and the lower molecular weight (48 kD) proteins, although much more
dramatically in the 58 kD protein. Figure 9 shows this trend more clearly in a
quantitative analysis of the relative intensities of each protein band based on
the JAVA image processing data. The intensity reading directly correlates to
the amount of protein present. Another point of interest is that there does
not appear to be a significant difference in the amount of protein present
between the instant ocean control and the normal sea water control.
Therefore, it may be reasonable to assume that the instant ocean does not
have any profound effects on heat shock protein activity in the organism.
Figures 10 and 11 show the JAVA image processing analysis of the two
other salinity shock experiments performed. Again, the specific relative
intensity values of each protein band can be found in Table 1 under the "HSP
60 (58 kD)“ and the "HSP 60 (48 kD)" columns. Figure 10 reports a decrease in
the amount of the 58 kD protein in the shock condition relative to the control
(33.2 ppt) and a steady amount in the 48 kD protein. Figure 11 shows the
