Rollins 1998
tuna and bonito. The minimal times to release in mackerel could mean anesthetic
differences result from non-metabolic rate causes. However, the mackerel never fully
entered anesthesia, and were actively swimming when recaptured for anesthetic reversal.
This could be due to their low metabolic rate. The semi-conscious state of mackerel,
therefore, allowed for earlier release, meaning their short release time may be a result of
their low metabolism.
Though no significant differences were found between the time to recovery in any of
the three species, a nonsignificant trend was apparent, with a maximum time for
yellowfin tuna and mackerel at a minimum value. The subjectivity inherent in measuring
time to recovery, determined as time from atipamezole injection to the time when the fish
recovered orientation and equilibrium ability, may have led to the high variance and lack
of significance in these values. Additionally, the low sample size may also contribute to
the lack of a significant difference.
When comparing results in the three species, the fact that the dosages varied
somewhat between species and individual fish must be kept in mind. This difference in
dosage may confound any conclusions that can be drawn from apparent patterns.
However, the difference in species dosages was often due to increasing resistance to
anesthesia, as bonito and mackerel were often not sufficiently anesthetized at doses
causing rapid induction in yellowfin. The fact that the highest doses were required in the
low-metabolizing mackerel, while low doses were effective in the well-vascularized, high
metabolizing tuna may reflect effects of metabolism and muscle vascularization on
anesthesia.
While average anesthesia data from yellowfin tuna is explainable by physiological
characteristics, the lack of surviving yellowfin was surprising. Doses of anesthesia in
yellowfin may have been too high, leading to observed rapid induction times but harming
the fish. However, it is possible that the version of the drugs makes a difference. The
differences between isomers of ketamine hydrochloride or medetomidine in the
page 16
