Rollins 1998
and pain experienced by the fish. Moreover, if ketamine/medetomidine anesthesia is
shown to not significantly affect hematological parameters of yellowfin tuna, the regimen
could be used as an alternative method of obtaining the blood samples necessary for
physiological studies. Anesthesia will also benefit research in the field. Immersion
anesthetics such as MS-222 cannot be used on individual fish within a noncaptive school
without the problems mentioned above. Development of an effective intramuscular agent
that can be applied via a dart methodology will allow more extensive investigation of
wild populations by enabling insertion of acoustic and archival tags. Likewise, the
possibility that blood sampling while under ketamine/medetomidine anesthesia does not
significantly bias blood chemistry means that hematological studies could also be
performed.
While the bonito (Sarda chiliensis) does not have the endothermic capacity of a
yellowfin tuna, lacking the extreme capillarization of red muscle that helps to generate
elevated temperature, they share the tuna’s high metabolic rate of the tuna (Freund,
personal communication). As a scombrid, the bonito is important in comparative studies,
serving as a predecessor to the tuna in the evolution of endothermy. Additionally, no
baseline blood parameters for the bonito currently exist. The Pacific mackerel, is also a
fast-moving scombrid, but lacks the endothermy and the high metabolism of the
yellowfin and bonito. This species is also significant from a comparative viewpoint, as
an example of a fish closely related to the yellowfin and other tunas, yet preceding the
evolution of either elevated metabolism or endothermy. While blood sampling was not
possible in the small individuals captured, the development of anesthesia in the species
would still serve the same benefit in the capture and transport required by the Tuna
Research and Conservation Center (TRCC) in Pacific Grove, CA. Moreover, by
comparing the process and behavioral characteristics of anesthesia of all three species, the
effects of metabolism and endothermy on anesthesia were able to be ascertained.
page 4
