Rollins 1998
in the blood (Bourne and Cossins 1982). In addition, potassium levels have been shown
to increase greatly following increased motor activity (Wood et al., 1983; Soivio and
Oikara, 1976). This result correlates, therefore, with the increase in speed noted during
the first stages of anesthesia induction. The significant increase in cholesterol between
the two sampling techniques is most likely not due to stress, but instead perhaps due to
diet differences between the two groups of fish.
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), an enzyme concentrated in the liver (Mommsen
1984), has been shown to increase in stressed, wild yellowfin tuna (Wells et al., 1986).
However, the mechanism of such a response is not known (Fletcher et al., in preparation).
This means that the increase in AST with ketamine/medetomidine anesthesia is possibly
due to stress, but may also result from an unknown cause. However, the increase in
creatine phosphokinase (CPK), an enzyme that increases with motor activity (McDonald
and Milligan, 1992), also reflects higher level of activity in the anesthetized yellowfin.
The highly significant relationship between bonito hematocrit levels and the ratio of
ketamine to medetomidine could show an increased stress level with an increased amount
of ketamine, relative to medetomidine. However, the small sample size in bonito, in
combination with a large range of error, makes the correlation between bonito hematocrit
and drug ratio somewhat uncertain. The true effect of anesthetic on bonito hematocrit
must be further investigated before any conclusions can be made.
Conclusions
In conclusion, though the viability of anesthesia in yellowfin tuna seems low, I feel
further research should still be performed. The amount of procedural error present in this
project, in addition to the small sample size of fish anesthetized, and the lack of
investigation into the experimental version makes a final decision on the usefulness of
ketamine and medetomidine in yellowfin premature. Furthermore, the lack of change in
blood parameters means it remains a good candidate for an alternate blood sampling
page 19
