Rollins 1998
The data from individual anesthesia experiments show distinct differences between
the three species (Table 1). Average time to anesthesia induction is at a minimum in
yellowfin tuna, increases in bonito and is highest in mackerel (Figure 2A).
Measurements of time to release in yellowfin are not significantly different from that in
bonito. However, mackerel time to release is much less than the other two species,
falling to a highly significant minimum (Figure 2B). Though a trend of decreasing time
of recovery is apparent, with a maximum in yellowfin and a minimum in mackerel, it is
not significant (Figure 2C). The overall percent of anesthetized fish surviving was
relatively low in all species, with 0 % survival in yellowfin, followed by mackerel at
38%, and bonito with highest survivorship (50%) (Figure 2D).
Analysis of the various anesthetic stages in yellowfin showed no apparent
relationship between ketamine dose and time to anesthesia induction, release or percent
survival. However, a positive relationship was found between time to recovery and
ketamine dose (Figure 3A). No trend was evident in comparing medetomidine dose with
time to induction or time to release. Nevertheless, a pattern between time to recovery and
medetomidine dose was present, with recovery time decreasing as medetomidine dose
increases (Figure 3B). Similarly, while comparisons of induction time or release time
versus ketamine:medetomidine ratio showed no trend, a positive trend surfaced in
comparison of recovery time to the ratio of the two drugs (Figure 3C).
No trends between ketamine dose or medetomidine dose and any of the categories of
anesthesia data were apparent in bonito. However, clear trends are evident in all data
categories when compared to the ratio of ketamine and medetomidine. In all 3 stages of
anesthesia, time measurements decrease with an increase in the ratio (Figure 4A-C).
Furthermore, the percentage of bonito surviving decreases significantly as the
ketamine: medetomidine ratio increases (Figure 4D).
In mackerel, all comparisons of anesthetic data versus individual drug dose gave no
patterns or trends. Ratio of ketamine to medetomidine was not analyzed with respect to
page 12
