Rollins 1998
quality of anesthesia obtained and the recovery of the fish were both qualitatively
comparable to that for the ketamine and medetomidine combination.
The single bonito anesthetized with MS-222 had a faster anesthesia induction time
than the range of values for intramuscularly injected bonito, with a value of 3.43 minutes,
versus a mean of 15.91 min (S.D. of 10.36 min; Table 1). Additionally, the times to
release and recovery were much longer than the ranges for ketamine and medetomidine
anesthesia; release time for MS-222 was 34.23 min, as compared to a mean of 8.81 min
(S.D. of 3.71 min), while recovery time for MS-222 was 36.13 min, versus a mean for
intramuscular of 11.53 min, (S.D. of 3.65 min; Table 1). The quality of the fish’s
recovery was comparable to intramuscular anesthesia, but the quality of the actual
anesthesia was much heavier.
Blood Chemistry and Hematology
Data on blood chemistry and hematological parameters in individual anesthesia
experiments are summarized in Table 2. Comparison of hematocrit levels obtained via
anesthesia and those obtained from the low-stress sling technique (Fletcher et al., in
preparation) are shown in Figure 5, and show no significant difference between the two
methods. However, analysis of hematology versus drug dosage in yellowfin shows a
significant correlation between increasing hematocrit levels and an increase in the ratio of
ketamine to medetomidine (Figure 80). No significant correlations exist in hematology
of yellowfin tuna vs. ratio of the two drugs or ketamine dose (Figure 8A and B). In
comparing mean enzyme and metabolite values, anesthesia fish had significantly greater
values of AST, CPK and cholesterol than in the sling technique (Figure 6). Levels of
blood calcium, potassium and sodium were found to be significantly lower in sling
technique sampling than anesthesia sampling (Figure 7A-C). However, blood chloride
was significantly higher in the sling technique (Figure 7D). Hemoglobin levels were not
statistically analyzed due to small sample size. In bonito, a significant correlation was
page 14
