Rollins 1998
transponder microchip (or "pit tag") number of the fish was read, a plastic, colored floy
tag was inserted for visual identification and the fish was released from the sling.
The fish was allowed to swim freely as the anesthetic took effect, with personnel
positioned along the walls to prevent the fish from harming itself. Behavioral effects of
the anesthesia on the fish were notéd, and when the fish was no longer able to equilibrate,
orient and swim independently, it was replaced in the vinyl sling. Forced ventilation of
the fish was started, using a submersible pump attached to a hose, which was placed in
the mouth of the fish. Once a fish was determined by a lack of muscle tension and
motility to be anesthetized, a blood sample was taken, following the method used in
Fletcher et al. (In preparation) drawing blood from the bulbus arteriosus. The blood
sample was then placed in a vial for hematocrit and hemoglobin analysis, containing
heparin (an anticlotting agent), and a vial for plasma separation, containing EGTA (a
clotting agent). Samples were then placed on ice until analysis. If the length previously
obtained was in question, another measurement was taken at this time. Finally, the dose
of atipamezole was measured and injected into the red muscle.
The fish remained in the sling under ventilation until it regained a strong tailbeat and
showed signs of righting itself and attempting to swim. Upon release, personnel
repositioned themselves around the tank, to protect the fish from harm until it regained its
orientation and equilibrium. When the fish sufficiently recovered, all personnel left the
tank, all equipment was removed, and the water level was restored.
Portions of the procedure were recorded using a Sony Hi-8 video camera, and
observations of the fish’s condition were made throughout the anesthetic process. Äfter
humans left the tank, observations continued to be made approximately every 10 to 15
minutes for approximately 2 to 3 hours. Time between observations continued to
increase until the fish died or a week passed, at which point observations were ceased.
The 6 bonito and 8 mackerel anesthetized were caught with a baited, barbless hook
and line and immediately transferred to a vinyl, water-filled sling held at the edge of the 6
page 8
