Rollins 1998
commercial and experimental versions could have caused yellowfin tuna deaths.
Experimental versions of ketamine and medetomidine should be applied before viability
of anesthesia is determined. In addition, further research into ketamine/medetomidine
anesthesia in yellowfin and increased sample sizes may lead to clearer relationships
between drug dosages and anesthetic stages. Since developing an ideal anesthetic dose
would be the primary goal of any further trials, correlations like those investigated would
be highly useful, helping to determine which dose produces the best quality of anesthesia,
with the best recovery and rate of survival.
In contrast to the yellowfin tuna, anesthesia in bonito appears to be a useful research
tool. The encouraging survival rate of bonito, in combination with overall good quality
of anesthesia make the ketamine and medetomidine combination an option that should be
further investigated, in order to increase sample size and determine correlations between
anesthetic stages, percent survival and drug dosage.
Though the survival rate and quality of anesthesia in mackerel is not as promising as
in bonito, intramuscular anesthesia is still viable. Mackerel agitation level was much
higher than in bonito, which led to large amounts of rough handling. Most mackerel
made a recovery to near normal behavior before death, but some were found to have
severe abrasions from handling. Death, therefore, was most likely due to handling, and if
an alternate capturing and restraining procedure is devised, successful anesthesia will be
possible. By increasing sample size and lowering death due to handling, the relationship
between drugs and anesthetic effects and an ideal ketamine and medetomidine dose will
be determined.
Immersion Anesthesia
In comparing anesthesia with MS-222 versus anesthesia with ketamine and
medetomidine, it seems evident that the immersion agent is no better overall than the
intramuscular anesthetic. While MS-222 did induce anesthesia more rapidly in bonito,
page 17
