Rollins 1998
Introduction
Research on wild and nondomestic vertebrates has contributed significantly in many
fields, from ecology to physiology and microbiology. However, this research can require
sedating animals, or applying a form of analgesia. A regimen of anesthesia is an ideal
tool in vertebrate research, as it often provides both sedation and analgesia. This project
focused on the development and utilization of an anesthetic regimen in scombrids:
yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), bonito (Sarda chiliensis) and Pacific mackerel
(Scomber japonicus). A primary goal of this work was to determine the specific dosage
of an intramuscular anesthesia for the three species of fish, while monitoring the
physiological effects of anesthesia through blood chemistry and hematology.
Interest in anesthetization of scombrids came about due to their commercial and
scientific importance. As major targets of global fisheries, research into their behavioral
patterns and physiological characteristics is of utmost significance. The fast-moving tuna
is also an anomaly among fish, due to its partial endothermy and high metabolic rate
(Brill 1987, Carey et al. 1971). The unique physiology of tunas makes the study of
yellowfin tuna important from a variety of physiological and evolutionary aspects. Such
studies require capture, transport, and short procedures with the fish, some of which
might benefit from anesthesia. Currently, either non-anesthetized methods, such as low
stress sling capture or immersion anesthesia, are used for most procedures (Fletcher et al.,
in preparation). While lowering the water level of a tank, and then herding a fish into a
vinyl, water-filled sling reduces the stress level of the fish and minimizes any
physiological or hematological changes, this technique is only sufficient for simple and
painless procedures. Furthermore, anesthetization of a single fish with MS-222 requires
either stress-inducing netting of the fish or the time-consuming sling technique.
Development of an intramuscular anesthetic technique, which could be delivered via dart.
would increase ease of capture and transport of scombrids, while reducing levels of stress
page 3
