Rollins 1998
Preliminary research at the TRCC on yellowfin tuna showed a combination of
ketamine hydrochloride and medetomidine could be effective. However, consistent
results were not obtained (Block, personal communication). This study was aimed at
ascertaining an optimal and repeatable level of anesthesia via a dose response study,
while monitoring blood chemistry. Additionally, any variations in anesthetic
effectiveness or behavior between the three species of fish were noted.
A secondary aim of this study was to determine the extent of the physiological
changes resulting from anesthesia. Studies by Fletcher et al. (in preparation) found that
variations in capture methodology resulted in differing blood parameters in yellowfin.
Specifically, the study found that low-stress level capture via herding into a vinyl sling
resulted in much lower hematocrit and hemoglobin than did high-stress capture with a
net. Furthermore, plasma levels of alkaline phosphatase (AP), alanine aminotransferase
(ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), bilirubin, cholesterol, creatinine, phosphate
and potassium were found to be significantly lower in sling-captured yellowfin than in
those captured in nets.
Anesthesia has also been shown to cause hematological effects similar to net capture
in non-scombrid teleosts, such as increased glucose, hematocrit and hemoglobin in
different species (Braley and Anderson 1992, Thomas and Robertson 1991, Hseu et al.
1996). These changes are most likely due to activation of the B-adrenergic response by
the anesthetic (Houston et al. 1971). This project measured hematocrit, hemoglobin,
enzymes, metabolites and electrolytes, and compared the data to the sling-capture data
from Fletcher et al. (in preparation). This comparison was performed in order to
ascertain the extent of the stress response and following hematological changes resulting
from ketamine/medetomidine anesthesia.
Ketamine and medetomidine, the main drugs used in the current study, have been
used previously, both in nondomestic mammals and in rockfish, and have been found to
lead to an anesthesia of good clinical quality (Jalanka 1991 and Williams, personal
page 5
