Rollins 1998
the combination of the increased release and recovery time outweighs any benefit. In
yellowfin, the two forms of anesthesia seem quite comparable in every measure, except
time to release, in which the ketamine/medetomidine combination is actually preferable,
due to its shorter time period. In summation, I feel that the added convenience of an
intramuscular anesthesia, in that it can be applied via dart in the wild or captivity, makes
it the ketamine/medetomidine regimen preferable to MS-222.
Blood Chemistry and Hematology
The usefulness of anesthesia is promising, as supported by the lack of a significant
difference between hematocrit levels in yellowfin tuna sampling methods. Increases in
hematocrit have been shown to be a result of elevated stress in several species of fish
(Soivio and Oikara, 1976; Wood et al., 1983; Wells et al., 1984; Railo et al., 1985).
Therefore, the absence of any difference between anesthesia and sling hematocrits
implies that anesthesia with ketamine and medetomidine does not cause a physiological
stress response. While it does appear that hematocrit of yellowfin may be affected by
medetomidine increases, the small sample size of this data correlation means that
additional research must be performed before any definite conclusions can be drawn.
The significant differences in chloride, sodium, potassium and calcium with
anesthesia may be attributable to increased stress in the fish. Stress could result in other
changes in ionic concentrations, such as the increase in calcium that occurred in this
study or the fluctuations in chloride and sodium levels (Fletcher et al., in preparation;
Eddy 1981). However, sodium levels would be expected to increase, not decrease as
occurred in this study (Eddy 1981). Additionally, a study by Wells et al. showed no
increase in sodium or chloride in highly stressed yellowfin tuna (1986). Therefore, the
changes in these ions are most likely a result of some other physiological response to
anesthesia, or are simply due to the small sample size. The increase in potassium with
anesthesia may be a result of stress-released catecholamines causing potassium increases
page 18
