Rollins 1998
Fish used for in MS-222 experiments were either netted for yellowfin tuna, or caught
with a baited, barbless hook and line for bonito. The fish were placed in a vinyl sling
within the MS-222 containing cooler, and the remaining drug solution was poured into
the sling. Ventilation of the fish was begun as before. The fish were held in the
anesthetic solution for approximately 3 minutes, and were then removed for weighing and
measurement of curved length. The fish were then placed in a vinyl sling in the cooler of
pure seawater and ventilation was resumed. Blood was then sampled from the bulbus
arteriosus. Fish were floy tagged, and when significant movement began, the fish was
moved to the tank, but remained ventilated in the sling. Once the fish showed signs of
righting and attempting to swim, the fish was released to swim freely in the tank.
Observations were made as in the intramuscular procedure, but video was not recorded.
Blood Analysis
Blood samples were analyzed for hematocrit, placing the heparin treated sample in a
standard capillary tube and centrifuging for 5 minutes (5000 rpm), separating red blood
cells from white blood cells and blood plasma. The percent of the liquid volume made up
by red blood cells was measured, giving a hematocrit level. Hemoglobin was analyzed
using a standard preparation (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and measuring absorbance versus
hemoglobin standards using a spectrophotometer at 540 nm. Serum samples were
prepared by centrifugation as well, spinning the blood/EGTA-containing vial for 7
minutes (3500 rpm). The separated serum was then analyzed for enzyme and metabolite
levels (alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase
(ALT), bilirubin, cholesterol, creatine phosphokinase, creatinine and glucose) as well as
electrolytes (calcium, chloride, phosphate, potassium and sodium) at the Department of
Comparative Medicine at Stanford University. Resulting data from all three
measurements were compared to data from Fletcher et al. (in preparation), and were
analyzed for statistical significance (two-tailed Student's t-test).
page 10
