Figure Legend
Figure 1. Model Flow Chart. The arrows imply either that matter flows in the direction of the
arrow, or that the variable at the head influences the variable at the tail. "Date
is a weekly date; all subsequent quantities are calculated on a weekly basis.
Figure 2. Map of Upwelling Region. Water upwells across the mouth of the bay. Half flows
into the bay and half into the open ocean. Nutrients in the upwelled water
diffuse through the euphotic zone.
Figure 3. Ratio of Carbon:Chlorophyll a in Phytoplankton. This ratio changes with season
because phytoplankton produce more chlorophyll per unit carbon during the
winter, when light levels are lower.
Figure 4. Phytoplankton Biomass in Monterey Bay, simulated over a two year period. The
output for biomass is in units of mg C per m
Figure 5. Phytoplankton Biomass in Monterey Bay, simulated over a two year period. The
biomass predictions shown in figure four are converted to units of mg Chl a per
m“ using the ratio shown in figure three.
Figure 6. Nitrate Available for Primary Productivity, simulated over a one year period. The
available nitrate is the sum of upwelled nitrate for the given time period and
nitrate left in the euphotic zone from previous time periods.
Figure 7. Primary Production in Monterey Bay, simulated over a two year period. The
production figures are expressed in units of mg C per me per day. The model's
weekly predictions are divided by 7.5 to give daily values, because the model
assumes four weeks in a thirty day month.
Figure 8. Primary Production in Monterey for one year (a comparison of actual and simulated
values). The predicted production values are compared with averaged
production measurements taken in the bay in 1989 (MBARI unpublished data,
1989). Both are in units of mg C per me per week.
Figure 9. Phytoplankton Biomass in Monterey Bay for one year (a comparison of actual and
simulated values). The predicted biomass values are compared with averaged
phytoplankton biomass measurements taken in the bay in 1989 and 1990
(MBARI unpublished data, 1990). Both are in units of mg Chl a per m’. (The
ratio shown in figure three was used to convert the model's predicted values
from C concentrations to Chl a concentrations)
Figure 10. Light and Nitrogen Limited Production, simulated over a two year perigd. Both light
and nitrogen limited production values are in units of mg C per me per day.
Figure 11. Nitrate Supported Blooms in Phytoplankton Biomass. This figure is identical to
figure four, with the winter, nitrate supported bloom is labelled.
