synaptic potentials or in a few cases initiating action potentials. The application of YS after 5-
HT resulted in a significant decrease of serotonin-induced activity. Thus, YS at a 1:100 dilution
appears to be functioning as an antagonist of 5-HT.
The buccal ganglia is responsible for generating rhythmic chewing and swallowing
motions in the buccal apparatus through the central pattern generator (CPG) which produces
buccal motor programmes, BMPs. The CPG receives extrinsic serotonergic inputs, e.g. from the
serotonergic metacerebral cell (MCC) which synthesises 5-HT. Perfusion of a semi-intact head
with 5-HT induced swallowing-like movements, seen in intracellular recordings as an increase in
excitability, thus demonstrating that 5-HT is an important neuromodulator in the buccal ganglia
system (Evgeni et al, 2000). As can be seen from fig. 5B and 6B, the application of 5-HI
induced a large excitatory effect seen in most of the recordings as an increase in PSPs (as most of
the B cells tested were pacemakers), and in the cells that were not pacemakers, this excitation
was in the form of action potentials. Application of 1:100 YS after 5-HT resulted in a significant
decrease in the cell’s activity indicating that YS functions as a serotonin antagonist. In addition.
the application of 5-HT after perfusion of the ganglia with natural seawater (fig. 6D) resulted in
the return of excitatory activity, therefore suggesting YS could be a reversible antagonist.
Because the recordings were on intact ganglia where the cells were still a part of a large
neural network, there is not enough evidence to determine whether YS is behaving as an
antagonist on a cellular level or on the whole serotonergic system, although the structural
similarities between 5-HT and 6BrMT provides strong indication that it might be antagonising at
the cellular level. To determine whether YS is an antagonist of 5-HT at the receptor level would
require isolation of the B cell and many more tests to be performed.
11
