figs. 4A and B). The firing activity of the cell continued after application of YS, and although
throughout a 3 minute recording the frequency of the action potentials in a cell does not usually
remain constant (bursts of activity are seen followed by periods of relative inactivity), there was
no discernable effect of YS on the activity of the cell, e.g. no PSPs were produced after
application of YS, and the shape of the action potential remained the same.
The B cells are primarily pacemaker cells firing regular action potentials but there were
some that had a quiet baseline (see fig. 5A). In the cells that did not display any spontaneous
activity (either in the form of post-synaptic potentials or action potentials) application of 5-HT to
the bath resulted in the appearance of regular action potentials (fig. 5B) indicating 5-HT had an
excitatory effect on the ganglia. Subsequent application of YS in the same chamber resulted in
an immediate silencing of the cell - no further action potentials were seen (fig. 5C).
In order to determine whether the effect of YS was reversible, the chamber and ganglia
were perfused with natural seawater after the application of 5-HT and YS. After the application
of ImM 5-HT following perfusion with seawater, the excitatory effect of serotonin was seen
again to a similar extent of that seen after the first application of 5-HT. Fig. 6B shows an EPS.
with an increase in the firing frequency of the action potentials situated over the small
depolarising wave. This is not seen after application of YS (fig. 6C), but reappears after
application of 5-HT (fig. 6D). The traces shown in these figures are representative of each of the
3 minute recordings.
Effect of 1:100 YS on Shaker potassium channels
Previous work (Sack et al) determined that application of 6BrMT at uM concentrations to
Xenopus oocytes expressing Shaker potassium channels resulted in a marked slowing of
activation kinetics and a reduction in the peak amplitude of Ig (fig. 7B). These effects were also
