Zonation of Tegula
Shi Jane Liaw
Transplanted T. funebralis could not be counted consistently at 1.5 hours and
3 hours because of rough water conditions and so a comparison of high and low tide
displacements at 3 hours could not be made. However, field observations indicate
that T. funebralis are more mobile than T. brunnea when exposed to air and tend to
move until they find a suitable area to cluster with other T. funebralis.
In the laboratory experiment, when water was drained out for the low tide,
T. brunnea followed the waterline to the bottom of the tank within an average of
approximately five minutes. In contrast, T. funebralis did not move from their
positions in clusters above the waterline. While T. brunnea preferred the bottom of
the tank during both day and night low tides, at least two and up to six T. brunnea
stayed on the walls during low tide at night. In contrast, only one T. brunnea was
ever on the wall at once during daytime. In contrast, there were no significant
changes in behavior of T. funebralis during different times and tides.
The migration behavior of the two species indicates that the upper limit of
the T. brunnea zone may be caused by an inability to tolerate heat and desiccation,
while the lower limit of the T. funebralis zone may be caused by an innate climbing
behavior. T. brunnea were never found above the waterline in the laboratory
experiment, they followed the waterline down at low tide and at lower temperatures
during the night, they were slightly more likely to stay on the walls during low tide.
In addition, T. brunnea did not move during low-tide transplants and instead
retracted into their shells until the water level rose to cover them.
A previous study also reveals that a combination of heat stress and water loss
probably determines how long T. brunnea can survive out of water (Rocca 1995).
Rocca (1995) found that when subjected to similar heat and desiccation treatments,
T. funebralis had a much higher survival rate than T. brunnea. It has been further
10
