Page 50
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
The eyes of Tegula funebralis may represent a concen¬
SUMMARY
tration of the same sensitive tissue present on the general
body normally outside of the shell. The pigmentation of
Tegula funebralis is negatively phototactic. It becomes
the retina resembles that of the epidermis, which contains
adapted to bright light, and loses its sensitivity temporar¬
melanin. Attempts to isolate a photosensitive pigment
ily. It has a general body sensitivity shown by a shadow
from the eyes, according to the recipe for squid retinas
reaction. Its eyes, simple lens ocelli, seem responsible for
(BLISS, 1948) failed, probably because of the very small
directional orientation to light. Without eyes its orienta-
amount of tissue employed.
tion is irregular.
LITERATURE CITED
BLISS, A. F.
1948. The absorption products of visual purple of the squid
and its bleaching products. Journ. Biol. Chem. 176: 563 - 569
Observations on the Epipodium, Digestive Tract,
Coelomic Derivatives and Nervous System of the
Trochid Gastropod Tegula funebralis
JOHN A. MACDONALD
AND
C. BURKE MAINO
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(15 Text figures)
to determine the extent of specific body cavities. Both
IN SPITE of the abundance of Tegula funebralis (A.
Mallory’s connective tissue stain and Harris' hematoxylin
ADAMS, 1854) in the California intertidal, no account of its
produced excellent results after fixation with Bouin’s fluid,
anatomy has yet appeared in the literature, although the
made with seawater. A silver impregnation (RowELL,
anatomy of other trochids has been described (Randles,
1963) worked well for isolated nerves, but also stained
1905; Fretter and Graham, 1962). To partially fill this
muscle and connective tissue heavily in sections of the
void, a brief account of certain external and internal fea¬
entire animal
tures of T. funebralis is herein presented
Epipodium: The epipodium of Tegula funebralis is com¬
The specimens of Tegula funebralis examined were col¬
posed of five elements: the neck lobes, anterior papillae,
lected at Mussel Point, Pacific Grove, California, during
April and May, 1963. The animals were dissected alive
epipodial tentacles, epipodial papillae, and epipodial
ridges (Figures 1 and 2). On both sides of the animal
after having been anesthetized with magnesium chloride
the anterior quarter of the epipodium is occupied by
both frozen and paraffin sections were cut in order to
the heavily ciliated neck lobe, which runs posteriorly
make more detailed observations. Injection of suspension
from near the base of the optic peduncle. The border of
of carborundum and carmine powders in sea water helped
