Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 47
THE VELIGER
In constant conditions the distribution of Tegula funeb¬
ralis remains constant. When light conditions are alter-
20-
nated between light and dark the distribution alternates
50 Foot-candles
correspondingly up and down. (Fig. 2) The alternating

light was presented out of phase with the day-night cycle
and was conducted with snails which had been in the
20 FC.
dark for two weeks. The response to the change of light
conditions starts immediately, and the new distribution is
reached within approximately one hour.
5 Foot-candles
(2) Another method for measuring the light response

was exposing groups of snails to beams of different inten¬
Note: The following abbreviations are used where appro-
priate in all figures in this article.
a shell aperture
ht head tentacle
k kidney
an anus
cm columellar muscle
me mantle cavity
et ctenidium
op operculum
os osphradium
e eye
darkness
foot
rectum
s shell
g gonad
o
spiral caecum
h heart
st stomach
Time (minutes)
Figure 3: Rate of movement of snails out of a beam of light at three
light
—dark-
light
—dork-
light
dork-
different intensities (5, 20, 50 f.c.). The rate in darkness is compared.
20
sities of light, and observing their rate of exit from the
lighted area. As soon as the snails were placed in a circle
of light, they began turning and pushing each other
around in their attempt to move out of the light. They
move to the darkest areas available, and rest only when
they reach a crack or maximum darkness. The same
number of snails left in the same area, but without light,
disperse much more slowly. (Fig. 3). Snails previously
adapted to different light intensities were also tested in
this manner (Fig. 4). Those previously exposed to full
sunlight (6000 F.C.) scarcely responded at all
(3) Both operated and normal snails give a "shadow re-
action," which is best observed if the snail is lying on its
back, with foot partly extended. (If it is not extended far
enough, it will withdraw into the shell when shadowed.
If it is extended too far, the snail turns over and will not
react at all. When the snail is attached to a surface by its
foot, shading causes it to pull back its head, and to remain
in that position for some time,— e. g. up to 5 minutes).
—

But when it is upside down, its normal reaction to a
2M 12PM 12M 12PM 12M 12PM
shadow is a slight contraction and pulling back of the
foot, followed by a short period of quiet, and then a relax-
Figure 2: Effect of alternating light (70 foot candles) and darkness
ation or extension of part or all of the foot. There is great
on 20 snails that had previously been in darkness for two weeks.
The cycle is opposite to that of actual day and night.
variation in the amount of contraction, even in the same
