Page 49
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Hlongest
Fraverage
Eshortest

Green
Blue
White
Red
White
- Normal Animals
Eyeless
Figure 6: The effect of various spectral regions, and of white light, upon the shadowing response. The narrow
columns represent different animals (5 to 8 in different histogroms). Eyeless animals are shown in the last group.
Intensities approximately equal, by G.E. photo-cell.
right when its right eye is removed. When both eyes are
There was no difference in their reactions. Figure 2
removed the snail generally turns around irregularly be¬
shows the response of eyeless snails. Apparently the
fore leaving the lighted area.
shadow reaction is more the result of a general body sen¬
In light from one side a normal snail moves away from
sitivity, than of reception by a specific light sensitive organ.
the source with its head in its own shadow. The head turns
These experiments indicate that the eyes are used for
from side to side, and each time that an eye is illuminated
directional orientation in the light. It is the only function
the snail turns back to its shadow or turns its head to the
of the eye that I have been able to discover. The anatomy
other side. In the same light an eyeless snail moves
of the eye suggests this as well (Fig. 7). It is a simple.
irregularly, even directly toward the light. Apparently it
small ocellus containing a firm, clear substance which may
cannot distinguish direction without its eyes. A snail with-
correspond to a “lens". The small opening to the outside
out its right eye will turn, usually toward the right, until
might function like a pin-hole camera, to form an image
its left eye is in shadow and then move directly out of
at the retina. Around the edge of the opening is a ring
the path of the light. When the left eye is removed the
of unpigmented cells which might be a cornea. The re¬
snail turns, usually to the left, until its right eye is in
tina appears to be formed by a direct invagination of the
shadow before moving straight out of the beam of light.
epidermis, continuous through the clear corneal area
Normal snails, snails without eyes, without epipodial
The optic nerve branches proximal to the optic cup,
tentacles and lobes, without propodial tubercles, and with
sending fibers over its entire surface to connect with the
none of these organs were tested for a shadow reaction.
retina.
