Page 48
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
The same procedure was followed at different spectral
regions isolated by glass filters; the intensities were ad-
5 Foot-candles
20 Foot-candles
justed to give about equal reading on a G. E. light
meter, which approximates the human eye over much of
1
the visible range. No significant difference in the duration
of the response was noted to shading of either red, yellow,
blue or green light (Fig. 6). However, in the far red
5.
light from a photographic ruby lamp (10 watts at 1 foot)
no shadow response could be elicited.

A sudden illumination, even by bright light, does not

cause such a consistent and quick reaction; it is the dis¬
appearance of light which causes the withdrawal. Nor
does re-illumination visibly affect the total shadowing re¬
Time (minutes)
action. If a snail is left in darkness for over an hour, then
— darkness ----70 ft. candles ----6000 ft candles
put on its back, there may be a long contraction but this
cannot be repeated as well as the shadow reaction. During
Figure 4: Rate of movement of snails out of a beam of
the first minute or longer of such light exposure, the snail
light (5 and 20 foot candles), after previous adaptation to
may be very insensitive to shadows. The amount of time
darkness, 70 foot candles and full daylight (6000 f.c.)
snail. The duration also varies, but not necessarily with
Epithelium
1o mm

the visible degree of contraction. A snail may contract
deeply but shortly, or only slightly, but remain still for


some time. Fig. 5 indicates the duration of contractions
Opening of
caused by 19 successive shadowings of 3 different snails;
opfic cup
Conn
the average is 3 to 4 seconds. (The light was a microscope
Cornea
lamp about 30 cm above the snail, with some 7.5 cm of
sea water to absorb much of the infra red. The visible in-
tensity at the level of the snail was 20 F.C.)




S
Figure 7: Sagittal section of the eye lobe of

)
Tegula funebralis, about 25 microns thick.
necessary for this adaptation is dependent on the bright-
ness of the light, and the intensity of light to which the
snail had been exposed before the one hour dark period.
o
Only when the snail becomes adapted to the new intensity
Order of shadowing
will it react to shadows.
(4) In avoiding light, snails move to the closest dark area.
Figure 5: Duration of contraction reaction induced by 19
In this they are aided by their eyes. A light directly above
successive shadowings of three different snails (represented
the snail causes it to move straight out of the light beam in
any direction. If the left eye is removed the snail turns
by solid, broken and dotted lines). Average duration
in about half a circle to the left before moving straight
about 3.5 seconds (omitting the four failures, of zero
out of range of the light. Similarly a snail turns toward the
durations). Light, 20 foot candles.
