Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 46
THE VELIGER
The Light Responses of Tegula funebralis
(Mollusca: Gastropoda)
DOROTHEA F. KOSIN
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(7 Text figures)
night exposure shows great migration downwards during
THE BEHAVIOR OF Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854)
full daylight; the snails gather in the shadiest parts under
on the shore is complex. The snails are found clustered
algæ, behind rocks, on the shady side of the aquarium.
in cracks and crevices of rocks on both sunny and foggy
In darkness (with only a dim ruby light for occasional
days when the tide is low. Their movements in tidepools
observation), the snails all remained at water level all
are inconsistent; sometimes all snails are gathered on the
the time. Snails kept at a constant low light intensity
shady side, at others they are scattered throughout the
(about 70 foot candles) tended to stay at the top, though
pool. They are subjected to the action of waves and cur-
somewhat less than those in complete darkness.
rents, as well as tidal exposure and submersion, at dif¬
ferent light conditions over the tidal cycle. To establish
irise
the role of each factor (such as light) would be difficult
in nature, but in the laboratory most of the other factors
—
can be controlled and light varied.
constont dorkness
20
METHODS
constant light

Tegula funebralis were tested for reactions to light in sev¬
—.—.—
eral manners: (1) Three aquaria, as much alike in con¬
tents as possible (rocks, shell fragments, algæe, number of
snails) were set up under different light conditions and
the snail movements noted. (2) Groups of snails were
subjected to different intensities and spectral regions of
visible light, and their reactions observed and timed. (3)
Individuals were allowed to move in directional light.
310
(4) Eyes and other appendages were removed and the
5
response of such operated snails compared with the nor-
doy-night
mal. Such operations were not generally harmful: all
operated animals survived for at least two weeks and no
infections were obvious. (Before operation, the snails
were anesthetized by slow addition of an equal volume of
isotonic MgCl- solution to sea water in which a number
of snails were lying upside down. A temperature of 30° C
also served to keep the snails extended out of their shells.)
RESULT
12 PM
12M
I2PM
May
May 2
May 3
(1) The experiments with 3 aquaria in different light con-
ditions indicate that Tegula funebralis avoid light. Fig.
Figure 1: Distribution of 20 Tegula funebralis in each of three
shows the number of snails at or near the surface of the
similar aquaria under different light conditions: normal day and
night; constant illumination at 70 foot candles; and darkness.
water (all others being on or near the bottom). The day
