INTRODUCTION
There are estimated to be over 14,000 (Wessel 2001, Kitchingman and Lai 2004
in McClain 2007) seamounts in the ocean, but only around two hundred sites have been
sampled. The overall biology on seamounts is not well characterized because the
technology required to sample the more remote and deep summits is relatively complex
and expensive.
Within the seamount literature, a landmark Nature publication by Richer de Forge
et al. (2002) heralded the discovery of more than 850 macro-and megafaunal species
from seamounts in the Tasman Sea and southeast Coral Sea. The statement that 29-34%
of these were new to science and potential seamount endemics emphasized the novelty of
the find. This went above the earlier estimation of maximum seamount endemism at
15.4% among invertebrates and 11.6% among fish (Wilson and Kauffman 1987).
The possible existence of endemic fauna, which by definition is found at a
particular location and nowhere else, has been explained in numerous ways. The term is
used frequently in island biogeography literature where unusually high rates of endemic
species are reported. For example, the proportion of indigenous flora that is endemic to
the well-studied Galapagos Islands is estimated at 43%. If Hawaii's native fauna is
broken down into taxonomic groups, 81% of birds are endemic, as are 99% of mollusks
and insects (Whittaker and Fernandez- Palacios 2007). Many of the extinction or near
extinctions that have been reported in the terrestrial and marine environment share one
thing in common: a small range size (Roberts and Hawkins 1999). Therefore, endemic
species may provide an impetus for research and conservation since they are often
considered vulnerable.
The mechanisms put forth to describe the process by which this condition could
arise on seamounts describe processes analogous to islands. Seamounts are portrayed as
an isolated habitat that is surrounded by strongly contrasting mediums. For example, hard
seamount substrate in the open ocean provides a sharp contrast to the surrounding abyssal
plains of soft sediment and the deep-water column. The patchy nature of hard substrate
may create isolating conditions favorable for the creation and maintenance of endemic
species in taxa that need this medium for settlement. A second, similar idea emphasizes
the shallower depths found on seamounts in relation to the surrounding abyssal plain.
