Echinodermata, which have different shaped distributions (1369.9, 1202, and 1480,
kilometers respectively). This also confirms the robustness of the median as an average
descriptor for this dataset, since it is not skewed towards outlying points.
DISCUSSION
The dominance of widespread species at this location is best illustrated by the fact
that eighty percent of the megafauna groups on Davidson Seamount have been observed
over a thousand kilometers away. Fig. 2b allows us to examine the continuum of ranges
more closely. The percentage of megafauna with geographic ranges greater than 1500
kilometers falls off sharply as this excludes the species seen as far away as the Canadian
border or the Gulf of California. In contrast, the percentage of megafauna with ranges
between 3-5000 km slowly declines. Two localities underlie this trend: linear
observations from Alaska fall between 2300-3000 km and Hawaii has a range between
3500-4500 km. Only twenty-five percent of the megafauna on Davidson has been seen
farther away than the western coast of North America or Hawaii. This may be an artifact
of relying heavily on the MBARI ROV dataset, which has only sampled as far as Hawaii.
The steepness of the slope around 8500 kilometers is a result of another group of
observations. This is past the farthest linear distances of observations in the Sea of Japan
and along the European coast. One of the weaknesses of using linear distance off
Davidson Seamount as a proxy for range size is that remote Pacific data are intermixed
with Atlantic data but represent two entirely different patterns. The Sea of Japan records
probably indicate a Rim of Fire' Pacific distribution, while the few species that have
been recorded along the Atlantic represent a larger dispersal and should probably be in
the context of my next observation. Two fifths of the twenty five percent of megafauna
found outside the coast of North America and Hawaii (or ten percent of all Davidson
megafauna) has been witnessed at geographic ranges greater than 13000 km, either in the
Antarctic or Indian Ocean. Given their presence in multiple oceans, these should be
considered cosmopolitan species, and will probably be observed elsewhere with
increased sampling.
The data above present strong evidence against the endemicity hypothesis, and a
locally distributed megafauna in general. However, if Davidson Seamount is roughly
