Depth zonation is one of the most established trends within benthic deep-sea biology
(Gage and Tyler 1991). The third hypothesis emphasizes current regimes and other
hydrographic conditions as the mechanism to prohibit dispersal and retain larvae on
seamounts. While these hypotheses remain largely untested (McClain 2007), high
numbers of species endemic to a single seamount have not materialized.
The publication of more specific studies from the same region as Richer de
Forges' original study have provided evidence contrary to endemicism. Samedi et al.
(2006) addressed the above suggestions by testing several species of well-known deep-
sea crustaceans for fragmentation of distribution that would result in phylogenetic
structure. Contrary to the isolation model, the haplotype frequency did not correlate to
location, which would indicate that populations remain genetically connected. Using a
different prototypical organism, O'Hara (2007) compared the species richness and
endemicity rates of ophiuroids between seamounts and continental shelves and found no
difference between the two habitats. Both of these studies discredit the single seamount
endemicity hypothesis, but only in a limited context: a specific taxonomic group in a
specific place. Lundsten et al. (In review) had a similar result for three seamounts along
the California coast, another specific place, but did look at all fauna found within the
study system. 1 hope to expand these previous studies to the distribution of all megafauna
found on Davidson Seamount at a larger spatial scale.
Davidson Seamount will act as a model system to test the endemicity hypothesis
at the community level through analysis of global biogeography data. The greatest linear
distance from Davidson Seamount at which a particular taxon was seen will be used as a
tool to compile a frequency distribution of species range size data for the megafaunal
composition of Davidson Seamount. This seamount is located around ninety kilometers
off the central California coast, rising 2400m off the ocean floor to a series of peaked
summits separated by sediment filled troughs nearly 1200m below the ocean's surface
(Lundsten et al. In review; Davis et al. 2002— see fig. 1 for a map of the California coast
that shows the relative position on the coastline, the northeast-southwest alignment and
the general shape of the seamount). Megafauna were previously identified from deep sea
Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) dives to Davidson Seamount in 2000, 2002, 2006,
and 2007 as part of a partnership of several organizations: the Monterey Bay Aquarium
