distribution was subdivided into phyla, and shown in a single figure as a comparison of
boxplots.
RESULTS
The frequency distribution of published maximal linear distances is presented in
Fig. 2a. It is a right-skewed graph with a large spread. There is a high level of variation
within the community, with some species only recorded on Davidson (0 km) whereas
others have been recorded at the farthest possible linear distance from Davidson in the
Indian Ocean 19888.6 km away. Fifty percent of species on Davidson Seamount have
been observed over 1879 kilometers away (median of dataset). These types of patterns
become more obvious when the data are transformed into the probability distribution seen
in Fig. 2b. A near vertical slope denotes a cluster of data points, indicating furthest
observations of multiple species were seen within close vicinity of each other. The most
noticeable case of this is around 1500 kilometers. These patterns will be explained further
in the discussion section, as they are a logical extension of the original frequency
distribution of linear distance off Davidson.
This frequency distribution was also broken down into phyla in Fig. 3. Only one
Ctenophora was seen, so no further analysis of this group will be made. Of the remaining
phyla, all had at least one specimen with a geographic range limited to Davidson or
nearby. The boxplot of different Chordates on Davidson is characterized by roughly
equivalent distances between each quartile and the median, indicating a uniform
continuum of observations. This is also reflected in a significantly higher median, greater
than the third quartile of all other groups except Arthropoda. Arthropoda has a median of
17, higher than other phyla. The Porifera, Cnidaria, Echinodermata and Arthropoda
boxplots have a shorter distance between the first quartile and the median, which
indicates a right skewed distribution similar to the frequency distribution as a whole. The
Mollusca are the only phylum in which the distance between the first quartile and the
median is greater than the distance between the third quartile and the median. The
maximum linear observation for this group was 3326.1 kilometers, and does not have the
tail' characteristic of the frequency distribution for all megafauna on Davidson
seamount. Interestingly, the median value for this group is similar to the Porifera and
