Research Institute (MBARI), the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary (MBNMS),
and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The extent of
sampling has also been included in fig. 1, represented by colored dots.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
The megafaunal community on Davidson Seamount was identified to the lowest
possible taxonomic level using in situ video frame grabs and digital still images of
specimens that were identified by taxonomists (Lundsten et al. In review). This process
relies on morphological differences, which can be more helpful for some phyla than
others. As a result, the phylogeny has not always been worked out to a species level for
many of the organisms on Davidson. Broad identifications that lump many potential
species together have been disregarded for this analysis, as the distributional patterns are
scrambled together. Where a difference can be ascertained, the labels reflect only the
highest confirmed taxonomic level. Examples include Family Hormathiidae sp., Porifera
sp. 15, Class Holothuroidea sp. 6 or Order Poecilosclerida sp. The resulting 156
identifications were then used as a reference to gather the coordinates for all previous
sightings within the extensive Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute video database
(VARS). VARS is a compilation from over twenty-six years of Northeast Pacific deep-
sea RÖV observations. Coordinates were also collected from two other databases:
FishBase.org Point Maps and SeamountsOnline, managed by the University of California
San Diego. Published species ranges in the literature were transformed into coordinates
using GoogleEarth and the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency's Undersea
Formation Coordinates (http://earth-info.nga. mil/gns/html/uf gaz jun07.pdf). Utilizing
the assumption that the earth is a perfect sphere with a radius of 6378.0 km, all
coordinates were transformed into a linear distance off Davidson with an applet hosted by
Northern Arizona University at http://jan.ucc. nau.edu/-cym/. The maximum linear
distance (in km) off Davidson published for the most conservative taxonomic level was
used to create a frequency distribution of the geographic range sizes and the
corresponding probability distribution using JMP Statistical Software version 5. The
median value was used in this study instead of the mean value as a descriptive statistic for
the average of a dataset because it is not as influenced by outlining points. The frequency
