forty-two by thirteen kilometers, then taxa endemic to Davidson Seamount must have
linear distances less than approximately forty-four kilometers (maximum length using the
Pythagorean theorem). A relatively small percent of the assemblage falls within this
category. In contrast, in examples of species-range size distributions of beetles, wildfowl,
and primates from the terrestrial literature (Gaston 1996, 1998) the bin that has most
species is the smallest. This may be because the deep ocean is not a dispersal barrier in
and of itself (McClain 2007). The presence of a high number of cosmopolitan species in
the deep sea may result from the absence of sharp abiotic gradients such as light,
temperature, and salinity that figure prominently in, for example, intertidal zonation
patterns. The physical difference between two points with widely differing latitudes or
longitudes is likely to vary less than in intertidal or terrestrial environments, leading to
wider distributions in the deep sea.
Normally, biogeography is analyzed at the species level using the classic
definition of a group of individuals comprising a breeding population. Among fauna with
limited distribution on Davidson, there is reason to suggest that we might not be getting a
complete picture. Of the nine instances of fauna only seen at Davidson Seamount, as well
as some organisms that appear on the far left-hand side of Fig. 2a, the taxonomy is not
known with great specificity, since the phylogeny of many organisms on Davidson has
not been worked out to a species level. These labels are only consistent within MBARI's
VARS database. This allows one to probe for other observations within the Northeast
Pacific deep sea, but cannot be used in a broader literature search, placing an artificial
limit on these organisms' distributions. The difference in level of confirmed taxonomic
identification may underlie the trends seen in fig. 3 between phyla. Of the Chordates
included in this study, twenty-four of the thirty-two species (mostly fish), had both a
genus and species name. In contrast, only five of the twenty-two Porifera had both
names. The biggest area for improvement within this study lies in the refinement of the
faunal list of Davidson Seamount. Further resolution may remove the limitation on the
size of organisms that can be detected by frame grabs, but this cannot be used as a
substitute for rigorous taxonomic analysis. Standardized identification procedures will be
instrumental in ensuring seamount researchers from disparate geographic localities can
make equivalent comparisons. Additionally, this effort has the potential to detect the
