Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacific Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
The results of this study indicate that the rocky midtidal community is highly
heterogeneous. A large percentage of the total variance occurs among quadrats within replicate
plots. The variance at this spatial scale is greater than 50% for all of the algae species analyzed. In
light of this finding, the results presented in a similar study (Boal, 1980) must be re-evaluated. In
Boal (1980), the experimental design consisted of a paired comparison of control and experimental
sites, rather than a nested sampling design. A paired comparison confounds harbor seal haul-out
effects with spatial heterogeneity. It is therefore impossible to accurately attribute the observed
differences between sites specifically to seal haul-out. Furthermore, the vertical range sampled by
Boal (1980) was zero to two meters above MLLW. In a range of this magnitude, the variation
between quadrats would be even greater than was encountered in this study. Yet, without a nested
sampling design, this variation was not accurately assessed,
The results of Boal (1980) were somewhat different from those presented in this report.
She found significantly greater cover of Chondracanthus canaliculatus at haul-out sites, which she
attributed to seal haul-out effects. Our study also indicated a trend of greater C. canaliculatus cover
as haul-out intensity increased (Fig. 8). However, the variations among plots and among quadrats
were so great (94.98% of the total variance) that this trend could not be attributed to seal haul-out
(Table III).
Boal (1980) also found significantly fewer Tegula funebralis on haul-out rocks. She
attributed this difference as well to seal haul-out effects. Analysis of T. funebralis counts from our
study indicated a similar trend with fewer T. funebralis at high haul-out intensity plots. Again, the
high variance among quadrats and among plots (94.33% of total variance) cast doubt on the
assignment of any significant effects to seal haul-out (Table III). Because T. funebralis often
aggregate in crevices at low tide (Morris, R. et al. 1980; Ricketts et al. 1985), seal haul-out would
not be expected to have a significant impact on their abundance. Wara and Wright (1964) indicate
that T. funebralis population density decreases as total algal cover increases. In light of these
findings, perhaps the decrease in T. funebralis with seal haul-out, as noted in both this study and
