Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacisic Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
scrape from rock. The scrapings were placed in labeled plastic bags in the field and transported to
the lab, where they were separated from debris and spread out to dry. Cleaned samples were
placed in a drying oven set at 60 degrees Celsius and weighed repeatedly until their weights no
longer changed. At this time, their dry weights in grams were measured on a mass balance and
recorded.
Data Analysis
Percent cover data for the six most abundant species of algae and numerical abundance data
for Tegula funebralis were analyzed using a two-factor nested analysis of variance (ANOVA).
Percent cover data were subjected to arcsine transformation (sin-1 V p, where p = proportion)
while numerical abundance data were subjected to log (x+1) transformation (Sokal and Rohlf,
1995b). Cochran's Test was used to determine homogeneity of variances among plots (Sokal and
Rohlf, 1995b). Pairwise plot comparisons using Tukey's HSD test were performed to detect
significant differences between plots. The percentages of total variance due to differences among
quadrats, among plots, and among intensity categories were also calculated (Underwood, 1981).
Two-factor ANOVAs were also performed on average algal biomass and average algal frond length
data for each haul-out intensity.
Diversity of the different plots was calculated using the Shannon index:
H'=-Epi ln pi
The quantity pi represents the proportion of individuals found in the ith species (ni/ N, where Nis
the total number of individuals) (Magurran, 1988). The average diversity of the plots was used to
estimate the diversity of the three haul-out intensity categories.
Results
Thirteen species of algae representing nine orders, one species of sea grass (Phyllospadix
scouleri), and thirteen species of invertebrates representing eight orders were encountered and
identified in this study. Eight species of algae and P. scouleri accounted for more than 5% of the
total cover in at least one of the nine plots. Five of the invertebrate species were encountered more
than five times in at least one of the nine plots (Table 1).
