Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacific Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
approximately 30 seals in 1979 to 100 seals in 1990. In this study, up to 172 hauled out seals
have been observed at one time.
Materials and Methods
The effect of harbor seal haul-out was determined by investigating the distributional and
physical differences in sessile species at sites of high, medium, and low seal use. A fully nested
sampling design was used to distinguish variations within and among sites. The study was carried
out in the Hopkins Marine Refuge, located at Hopkins Marine Station in Pacific Grove, California
(Fig. 2). Field research was conducted from April 24 to May 24 1996.
Determination of Seal Haul-out Intensities
Study plots were determined by identifying locations of low, medium, and high seal haul¬
out intensities. Observations were made from the shore adjacent to the study area using hand-held
8 X 42 binoculars. The number of seals at 17 identifiable plots of similar size was sampled at
hourly intervals from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. for a total of four days. Tide heights, weather conditions,
and possible disturbances were also recorded.
The number of seals hauled out in each plot was averaged over the 10 time intervals (8 a.m.
to 5 p.m.). The data were then averaged over the four days of observation to give an overall
average of seal intensity per plot at any given time. Due to their similarity in intertidal height, the
plots were assumed to have comparable percentage exposure time. Plots that averaged 0 to 1 seals
hauled out were categorized as low intensity, 7 to 10 seals hauled out as medium intensity, and 14
to 16 seals hauled out as high intensity (Fig 3). In total, three low, three medium, and three high
intensity plots were identified (Fig. 4, 5, and 6).
Determination of Community Composition within Sites
The study employed a fully nested sampling design of three replicate plots within each of
the three seal haul-out intensity categories. Five replicate quadrats were sampled within each plot.
The following categories of measurements were sampled at comparable vertical heights in each
plot: percent cover of all sessile species, algal frond length and algal biomass. Based on vertical
