Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacific Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
No significant differences in percent cover for all six algae species analyzed were detected
among haul-out intensities (Fig. 9). Similarly, no significant differences among haul-out
intensities were detected for T. funebralis abundance. Large variations in algae percent cover and
T. funebralis abundance were found among quadrats within plots and among plots within haul-out
intensities (Table II). Cochran's test revealed homogeneity among M. papillatus, M. affinis, and
M. papillatus (Petrocelis phase), but heterogeneity among Hildenbrandia spp., E. muricata, and C.
canaliculatus (Table I).
Two species of algae, Mastocarpus papillatus and Mazzaella affinis, demonstrated definite
trends in percent cover among haul-out intensities (Fig. 10). M. papillatus cover decreased
substantially as seal haul-out intensity increased. In contrast, M. affinis cover increased as haul¬
out intensity increased. Although ANÖVA revealed no significant differences among haul-out
intensities (p = 0.087 for M. papillatus and p = 0.069 for M. affinis) substantial proportions of
total variance were due to haul-out intensity (28.7% for M. papillatus and 25.3% for M. affinis)
(Table II). Calculation of the sources of variance revealed that 28.7% of the total variance for M.
papillatus and 25.3% of the total variance for M. affinis resulted from differences in haul-out
intensities (Table II). A Tukey's HSD test of M. papillatus cover showed that plots categorized
within the same haul-out intensity were not significantly different from each other. However,
certain high haul-out intensity plots were significantly different from certain low haul-out intensity
plots (12:6, 13:6, and 3:7) (Table III).
A two-factor nested ANOVA of algal biomass among the three haul-out intensity categories
revealed no significant differences among intensities. However, a trend of increasing biomass
with increasing haul-out intensity was observed (Fig. 10). Average algal frond length was also not
significantly different among the three intensities. A possible trend of decreasing frond length with
increasing haul-out intensity was noted (Fig. 11).
Estimated diversities of the three haul-out intensities were very similar. No trends were
observed due to high variability between plots of the same intensity (Fig. 12).
