Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacific Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
Discussion
Although no significant differences in percent cover among seal haul-out intensities were
detected for the six most abundant species of algae encountered, definite trends in Mastocarpus
papillatus and Mazzaella affinis were observed. The trend for M. papillatus cover decrease with
haul-out intensity increase is supported by a study of human trampling on marine rocky shore
communities (Brosnan and Crumrine, 1994). The study noted that M. papillatus cover was lower
(from 9 to 1%) in trampled plots than in control plots. Human trampling and seal haul-out could
create similar mechanical stresses on the community by crushing and dislodging the algae. In fact,
seal haul-out most likely creates greater physical stress on the community, as the seals contact a
larger area and spend more time on the rocks.
An explanation for the M. affinis trend observed in this study may lie in the results of a
study by Danek (1979) on M. affinis distribution, which reported a greater abundance of this
species at intermediate wave exposed sites. There were no major qualitative differences in wave
exposure between any plots in our study (Ullmann, 1991). Based on Danek's findings, it seems
possible that M. affinis abundance is enhanced by the physical stress of wave action.
Analogously, the physical stress caused by seal-haul-out may also enhance M. affinis abundance.
There were no statistical differences for algae biomass among seal haul-out intensities,
despite distinct trend of increasing algae biomass with increasing haul-out intensity. Algae frond
length, on the other hand, appeared to decrease as seal haul-out intensity increased. This
difference was also not statistically significant. As mentioned previously, the harbor seals move
on land in a hunching, lurching manner (Randall et al. 1992; Riedman, 1990). The mechanical
abrasion of seals moving on a rock would tend to tear algae with long fronds and encourage the
growth of bushier, more turf-like algae. Turf-like algae have shorter frond length, but greater
biomass. Supporting evidence for this explanation comes from Brosnan and Crumrine (1994)
who found significant declines in foliose algae and increases in relative abundance of turf-like algae
in trampled areas.
