Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacisic Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
Introduction
The current world population of harbor seals is estimated to be 500,000 individuals
(Reeves et al. 1992) (Fig. 1). With males weighing up to 140 kilograms and measuring 1.9 meters
in length, and females averaging 80 kg (Reeves et al. 1992), the potential for impact on haul-out
sites by harbor seals is substantial. The harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) belongs to the taxonomic
family Phocidae. Unlike other mammals in the order Pinnipedia, such as the California sea lion,
the phocids are characterized by (among other things) hindflippers which cannot be rotated forward
for movement on land, mammae with two teats, and lack of external ear flaps (Riedman, 1990).
Phocids such as the harbor seal move on land by hunching the body and wriggling to the side
(Reeves et al. 1992). Compared with other pinnipeds which walk on their flippers, the phocids
contact with haul-out substrate is greater in area and involves more dragging action. This further
increases the mechanical stress placed on the sessile communities at haul-out sites.
Behavioral as well as physical factors contribute to the possibility of such disturbances.
Harbor seals spend forty-four to fifty percent of their time hauled out (Newby, 1973; Riedman,
1990; Sullivan, 1982). Moreover, harbor seals exhibit a high level of fidelity to haul-out sites over
periods of years (Reeves et al. 1992). They are also most likely to haul out in sites where other
seals are already present (Ösborn, 1985; Sullivan, 1982), which concentrates their potential
impact.
Few previous studies have addressed the impact of harbor seal disturbance on intertidal
habitats where seals haul out frequently. Boal (1980) reported that seal haul-out in the rocky
intertidal significantly alters algae and microscopic fauna composition. She attributed these
findings to both mechanical and chemical factors.
The goal of this study was to assess the effect, if any, of the Pacific harbor seal (Phoca
vitulina richardsi) on the rocky midtidal community of Hopkins Marine Refuge. The first Pacific
harbor seals observed to haul out regularly at Hopkins Marine Refuge arrived in the early 1970s
(Boal, 1980). Since that time, the local harbor seal population has increased substantially, from
