Horng & Hayhurst: Haul-Out Effects of the Pacific Harbor Seal on the Rocky Midtidal Community
zonation patterns in the rocky intertidal as well as observations of seal haul-out patterns, a height
range of 1.5 - 3.0 feet above MLLW was selected for sampling. This range was identified in the
field with the aid of a surveyor's rod and transit and a topographical map of the refuge, "Survey of
Rocky Intertidal Zone, Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University, Pacific Grove, California
(1980).“ Field work was conducted during low tide and seal disturbances were minimized.
Percent cover of each plot was determined by using a random point contact method within
five randomly placed quadrats. X,Y-coordinates on the grid of the quadrat were chosen from a
table of random digits (Sokal and Rohlf, 1995a). Thirty-five points were used in each quadrat.
This number of points was determined by conducting a sample quadrat and recording species hits
at every point on the grid. From this information, a graph was constructed of the number of points
sampled versus cumulative number of species hit (Fig. 7). The resulting curve leveled off near the
point where x equals 35. This method allowed the determination of an optimal number of points
tested to maximize species representation and minimize time spent per quadrat sampled.
Quadrats measuring 20 X 20 cm were placed haphazardly in the sampling area. In order to
ensure access by seals as well as consistency of the sampled community, only quadrats which
landed on relatively horizontal surfaces were scored. Quadrats that landed in crevices were moved
to the nearest horizontal surface within the allowed vertical range. Both primary and secondary
(cover) species were recorded separately at each point tested in the quadrat. The general location
and characteristics of each quadrat were noted as well. Species were identified in the field using
Dawson and Foster (1982). Additional aid in identification was provided by Jim Watanabe.
Algal frond lengths were measured at five random points in each quadrat. At each selected
point, a ruler was used to determine the fully extended frond length in millimeters. Hits on crustose
algae, such as Hildenbrandia spp. and the Petrocelis phase of Mastocarpus papillatus , were
recorded as 0.0 millimeters.
Finally, algal biomass in each plot was measured with scrapings from two randomly placed
10.5 X 10.5 cm quadrats. Samples were removed with a small paint scraper. As with algal frond
length, biomass measurements did not take into account crustose algae which were difficult to
