Introduction
In natural habitats, predator-prey interactions often provide the selection pressure for the
evolution of behavioral escape responses, which range from immobility, changes in color, active
flight, and the seeking of refuge (Roberts 1992). In this study, we focused on one specific escape
response, the startle reaction, which occurs following a sudden, unexpected stimulus. The adult
zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio) was used as our model organism because its startle reaction has
been well characterized: a distinct tail flip, more pronounced than that in normal swimming.
which both accelerates and turns the fish (Kimmel 1974). The net result is rapid movement at an
angle to the original axis of swimming (Fig. 1). In general, these motions enable the fish to evade
oncoming predators quickly and efficiently.
In many teleosts, including the zebrafish, an abrupt decrease in light intensity triggers a
particular startle reaction, now identified as the looming response (Diamond 1970). Shadows
created from above can indicate an impending attack, especially by avian predators. Therefore,
these fish tend to dive into deeper waters for safety when another creature "looms" above it and
blocks the ambient sunlight. The pathway that mediates light received by the eye and ultimately
generates muscle fiber contraction has been studied extensively. The looming response is
understood to be transmitted via Mauthner’s neuron, or the M-cell, which initiates large
muscular contractions to produce a full startle reaction following certain visual cues (Bartelmez
1915). Nevertheless, by what method certain structures function, such as the exact processes
occurring within the optic tectum, is not yet well understood.
The retina contains two distinct types of ganglion cells: on-center and off-center cells. On-
center cells fire action potentials when their center is exposed to light and do not fire when the
region around its center, the surround, is subjected to light. Off-center cells react in just the
