Fig. 1 Dorsal view of typical startle response in zebrafish. Silhouettes are drawn at 5 ms
intervals beginning approximately 5 ms before onset of vibrational stimulus (reproduced
from Eaton et al. 1977)
Fig. 2 Frontal section through a teleost (Barbus fluviatilis) optic tectum (after P. Ramón)
stained using the Golgi method. A, deep regions of layer 5; B, middle region and central
plexus of layer 5; C, superficial region of layer 5 consisting primarily of fusiform cell
dendritic branches; a, layer 5 ganglion cell; b, pyramidal cells with a central axon; c,
shepherd’s crook cell with some of its dendritic branches extending into the central
plexus; d, layer 5 transverse cell; e, small stellate cell (reproduced from Cajal 1995).
Dorsal view of zebrafish eye and surrounding tissue after extraction from socket. The
Fig. 3.
thin, light tissue is the optic nerve, which contains the axonal projections of ganglion
cells. Encircling the optic nerve are fat globules that supply nutrients to the region.
Top-down view of zebrafish tectal region after surgical removal of protective head plate.
Fig. 4.
Clearly visible are the right and left lobes of the optic tectum, along with the cerebellum,
which lies posterior to and between the tecta.
Fig. 5 Diagram of an optic chiasm and the compensatory decussation of motor and
somatosensory pathways in lower vertebrates. C, second-order visual centers; G, spinal
ganglia and sensory roots; M, motor pathway; O, crossed optic nerves; R, spinal motor
roots; S, crossed second-order somatosensory pathway (reproduced from Cajal 1995).
Voltage data recorded from the retina at five repetitions given baseline parameters (flash
Fig. 6.
duration of 100 ms and an interstimulus interval of 1900 ms). Single dip responses occur
following each flash. Each response lasts longer than the corresponding flash itself.
Voltage data recorded from the retina given a flash duration and an interstimulus
Fig. 7
interval of 10 s. Both an on- and an off-response are visible and are similar in peak
amplitude.
Voltage data recorded from the retina given a flash duration and an interstimulus
Fig. 8
interval of 20 s. On- and off-responses remain constant in the duration, between 200 and
300 ms, as flash duration increases.
Voltage data recorded from the right optic tectum at five repetitions given baseline
Fig. 9
parameters. Both on- and off-responses result from repeated light stimuli. High levels of
electrical noise are present in this run.
Fig. 10 Voltage data recorded from the right optic tectum at five repetitions given a flash
duration and an interstimulus interval of 5 s. The ratio of off-response magnitude to on-
response magnitude increases as a function of repetition number.
Fig. 11 Voltage data recorded from the right optic tectum at five repetitions given a flash
duration and an interstimulus interval of 10 s. Off-response magnitude displays a
noticeable decrease of approximately 25 percent over the complete series of light
flashes.
Fig. 12 Voltage data recorded from the left optic tectum at five repetitions given baseline
parameters. Both on- and off-responses result from repeated light stimuli, and no clear
trend governs their magnitudes. High levels of electrical noise are present in this run.
Fig. 13. Voltage data recorded from the left optic tectum at five repetitions given a flash duration
and an interstimulus interval of 5 s. The ratio of off-response magnitude to on-response
magnitude decreases as a function of repetition number.
29
