sensitivity to that stimulus. When the activity immediately following exposure to
light (time zero), M, is compared with the activity at maximum response (minimum
activity), M, a measure of percent effect is obtained, which corresponds to the
absolute sensitivity of Tigriopus to that light intensity, as shown in figure 6. An
area of heightened sensitivity to light occurs around 0.35 watts/m, where the product
of intensity and relative sensitivity to light (S, the relative response/quanta of
light stimulus) reaches maximum. The response/quanta is greatest in dimest light.
probably a result of adaption. The sensitivity to light has been shown to exhibit
various minimum intensities in other crustaceans with median eyes: 0.4 watts/m' in
Daphnia magna (Heberdey and Kupka 1942) and between 1 and 10 watts/m in Balanus
improvisus (v. Buddenbrock 1930).
The degree to which Tigriopus resumes time zero levels of activity following
the maximum response is indicative of the animal's ability to adapt to changes in
light intensity. If the magnitude of the response (difference between the mean swim¬
ming velocity at time zero and at maximum response, i.e. V -V
is compared with the
magnitude of the recovery (difference between the mean swimming velocity at maximum
recovery within fifteen minutes and at maximum response, i.e. V...
-V ), a measure
of the ability to adapt to intensity is obtained (figure 7). There are two salient
features to this relation: (1) Tigriopus adapts more readily to dim light than strong
light (perhaps explaining the greater relative sensitivity, to dim light), and
(2) there is a region of "negative adaption," at higher intensities where the
recovery is larger than the response.
How does Tigriopus respond to increases in illumination from below?
In order to answer this question, the procedure described in "General Materials
and Methods" was followed with these exceptions: (1) the petri dish was illuminated
from below at intensities from 4.5 to 7.0 watts/m, as measured directly above the
petri dish, (2) the light originated from two 12 volt tungsten filament bulbs about
