used. After a fifteen minute exposure to an intensity of 1.5 watts/m, the light
intensity was decreased to 0.05 watts/m', photographing the response of Tigriopus
continuously at two frames/sec. The response, measured in terms of activity,
closely parallels field observations in time course (fig.9). There are three
distinct phases to the response: a "darting" response, characterized by a marked
increase in activity over 0.5 seconds, a "freeze" response in which a four-fold
decrease in activity occurs within 2 seconds, and a gradual increase in activity
that immediately follows. It was noticed that Tigrionus must be exposed to some light
for a brief period before any response to shadow can be observed, the length
of time required being longer at low intensities, emphasizing the role of adaption
in responses to light. Extended periods in the dark have been found to eliminate
the shadow response in Balanus for some time as well (v. Buddenbrock 1930).
The"dart-and-freeze" response observed may be of special ecological
significance to Tigriopus, in the form of an escape response. This type of
behavior has been observed in some other animals as part of a predator-escape
mechanism, although it is usually associated with camuflaging and is not specifi¬
cally a response to shadow. It is possible, however, that Tigriopus "darts-and¬
freezes" in response to the shadow of a large predator, such as Pachygrapssus.
It is also possible that the shadow response is used to avoid being washed
to sea during a high tide or rough weather. When the sun is at a small angle above
the horizon, waves can cast shadows into tide pools. In fact, any turrbulence in
tide pools can produce changes in the pattern of illumination and shadow that may
elicit a response from the copepods. Tigriopus is positively geotactic and negatively
phototactic in response to turbulence (Foster,and Burnett, personal communication).
The quick downward movement characteristic of the shadow response may serve to
enhance these taxes and permit Tigriopus to avoid turbulence by aggregating in
dark cracks and under rocks on the bottom of tide pools. The value of the subsequent
