15 cm below the dish, (3) photographs were taken with the camera mounted
about 40 cm above the dish, (4) randomly sexed animals were used, and (5) animals
were collected and left in darkness for fifteen minutes as before. After this per¬
iod, the copepods were exposed to a light intensity of 4.5 watts/m2. No photographs
were taken at this time. After fifteen minutes, ten frames of film were exposed
at two frames/sec. After the third frame was exposed, the light intensity was
increased to 7.0 watts/m'. The results are presented in figure 8. Upon increased
illumination, the swimming velocity of the copepods did not change much; however
the amount of turning increased markedly, and then attenuated with time,
This response provides suggestive evidence for the involvement of
klinokinesis in the orientation of Tigriopus to light, in the scheme of Fraenkel
and Gunn (1961), where the rate of change of direction is a function of light
intensity. The observations made of Tigriopus are similar to those obtained from the
klinokinetically orienting planarian Dendrocoelum (Ullyott 1936), except that the
magnitude of the response is up to fourteen times greater and the speed of the res¬
ponse is up to 250 times as rapid; Tigriopus resumes ordinary swimming behavior
well within one minute after the increase in intensity. Since the attenuation
is in part a function of sensory adaption in the eye, the behavior suggests a
particularly rapid ability of Tigriopus to adapt to changes in illumination, even
when compared with the adaption times measured for other crustaceans: 6-10 minutes
in Palaemon serratus and Praunus flexusus, 3 minutes in Pandalus montaqui (deBruin
and Crisp 1957), and 3-5 minutes in Ligia (Ruck and Jahn 1954).
How does Tigrionus respond to Sudden Decreases in Light Intensity?
Tigriopus californicus in the water column of tide pools dart downwards
for a brief period of time when a shadow is cast upon them, become immobile, and
then swim up from the bottom in great numbers. In order to study this response in
the laboratory, the basic procedure given in "General Materials and Methods" was
