prepared for visualizing the DNA. The gel was placed in 500 ml of
the buffer it just ran in with 100 microliters of ethidium bromide
solution (10 mg/ml). The gel soaked in the dilute ethidium solution
for at least ten minutes. Then, the gel was rinsed twice with tap
water.
The gel was placed on the ultraviolet light source in the dark
room, and a transparent ruler was placed over the standard lane to
serve as a reference. At an f-stop of 11, the shutter was released
for three seconds, and a polaroid picture was developed immediately.
Southern Blots
The gel was covered with denaturing solution and gently rocked
on a shaker for ten minutes. The denaturing solution was replaced
with fresh denaturing solution, and the gel was once again shaken
for ten minutes. Äfter a rinse with neutralizing solution, the gel
was covered with neutralizing solution and gently rocked for fifteen
minutes. The neutralizing solution was replaced, and the gel was
shaken for another fifteen minutes.
A blot was made by layering several materials around a gel. Two
pieces of Whatman's paper cut to the size of the gel had soaked in
20X SSC and were then placed on a sheet of plastic wrap on a flat
surface. Air bubbles between the paper and plastic were removed by
stroking them out on the sides. The gel was placed on the paper and
air bubbles removed again. A sheet of nylon membrane which was
cut to size and wetted in water was soaked in 20X SSC, and it was
placed on the gel. Air bubbles were carefully removed before ano¬
ther piece of 20X SSC-soaked Whatman's paper was layered next. A
stack of paper towels was placed on the gel layer, and a glass plate
placed on the whole stack. Finally, an object with some degree of
mass such as a full flask, was placed on the plate.
The blot sat on the bench for at least eight hours before the nylon
membrane was removed and saved in a sealable plastic bag. This bag
was placed on the ultraviolet light source with the DNA side of the
membranes facing the light and then exposed to UV light for two
minutes. This covalently bonds the DNA to the nylon.
