the supernatant was repeated once.
The supernatant from the second spin was spun at 18,000 G for
thirty minutes, which leaves a pellet of mitochondria in glycogen.
The supernatant was discarded, and the mitochondrial portion of the
pellet was resuspended in one milliliter of TEK. At this point, each
sample was divided equally into two eppendorf tubes.
The mitochondria were lysed by adding ten microliters of 20%
SDS. To increase the effectiveness of the SDS, the samples were
placed in a 37°C water bath for about five minutes. To purify the
DNA, 500 ul of phenol was added next, the mixture shaken vigor-
ously, and then spun at full speed in the microfuge for ten minutes.
The top layer was drawn off from the lower phenol layer and the
unwanted white material at the interface. The phenol extraction
was repeated once. To clean the phenol out of the sample, the same
extraction procedure was performed with chloroform. However, the
spin for the chloroform extraction was only five minutes.
To cause the DNA to precipitate out of the TEK solution, 25 ul of
5M Nacl and one milliliter of -20°C ethanol were added to the solu¬
tion. After several hours in the freezer, the tubes were spun at full
speed in the microfuge for fifteen minutes. The supernatant was
discarded, and the pellet of DNA resuspended in 100 ul of 1X TE.
Finally, the two tubes for each sample were combined in one tube.
Enzyme Digestions of DNA Samples
Seven different restriction endonuclease enzymes were used to
examine differences in cutting patterns between individual samples.
Six-base cutters were chosen because they generally have from zero
to five or more restriction sites on mitochondrial DNA. The enzymes
were BamHl, Clal, ECORI, ECORV, Hindill, Pstl, and Xhol.
Enzymes were placed in distilled water and the appropriate salt
for that enzyme so that the digestion would be in a 10% salt buffer
solution (i.e. 2.5 ul salt for a 25.0 ul reaction.) For each reaction,
0.3 ul of enzyme in 15.0 ul was used to digest 10.0 ul of DNA sus¬
pended in TE. The labelled reaction tubes were finger-vortexed and
placed in the 37°C water bath for several hours as the enzymes
acted.
To ensure that the digestion was complete, another 0.3 ul of the
same enzyme in an extra 5.0 ul of buffered solution was added to
