records. (These data may prove to be useful for further population
studies of these samples.)
There was no more than a two hour delay between collection and
dissection. The first collection was off of Del Monte Beach in Mon¬
terery. In addition to several kelp rockfish, blues, and blacks, a
copper (S. caurinus) and a gopher rockfish (S. carnatus) were col¬
lected at this site. The second also came from Del Monte Beach. A
spearfishing contest at Carmel River State Beach was the third col¬
lection site. These fish were not actually caught by the Department
of Fish and Game, but they were the sponsors. We took kelps, blacks,
and blues from the event. Linda and 1 accompanied Dave VanTresca
and Peter Nelson, a graduate student from UC Santa Cruz, on the
final collection trip just north of the boardwalk in Santa Cruz. They
speared kelps, blacks, and blues and an olive rockfish (S. serranoi¬
des). All of this is summarized in Table 1.
Isolation of mtDNA
Although these methods were not all carried out throughout the
study, the following is the most refined version of the methods that
were eventually performed.
On a piece of glass on ice, a small (- 500 ul) slice of liver was
cut, and saved at -70°C. About three grams of the remaining liver
were minced with a razor to a liquid consistency. If the liver was
big enough and parts of it could be spared, then pieces of liver not
containing the tough connective tissues were chosen.
The minced liver tissue was placed in a glass tube with 15 ml of
TEK (.O5M Tris, pH 7.5, .OIM EDTA, and 1% KCl.) The tube was placed
in an ice bucket and the sample was ground with a teflon pestle.
Grinding continued until it was possible to make two complete
passes with the pestle.
The liver homogenate was then placed in a centrifuge tube and
layered with a 15% sucrose/TEK solution that was passed through
pasteur pipet under the homogenate. This was spun at 1000 G for
ten minutes. The supernatant was drawn off from the lower layer of
debris, but the thin layer of fat above the supernatant was not saved.
This step of layering with sucrose/TEK, spinning, and drawing off
