presents a problem. Different restriction endonucleases recognize
different sequences, so choosing which ones to use in a study is
essential for economy of samples. Mitochondrial DNA happens to be
particularly rich in adenine and thymine (Brown, 1985), so maybe the
investigator wants an enzyme that recognizes a sequence with A's
and T's so the mtDNA gets cut more. What he really wants is an en¬
zyme that can point out a lot of differences in RFLP patterns be¬
tween individuals. The best way to find out which enzymes are best
for this is empirical testing of several different enzymes. I tested
how good certain enzymes were at producing polymorphisms, so that
these enzymes could later be used as diagnostic tools when dealing
with the limited amount of mtDNA in a larval rockfish.
Methods
Rockfish were collected by the California Department of Fish and
Game, and the livers from the fish were dissected. Liver was the
tissue of choice because it is so rich in mitochondria. As will be
described later, mitochondrial DNA was extracted according to the
Chapman and Powers (1984) method. The DNA samples were diges¬
ted with an assortment of restriction endonucleases, and the
products of these digestions were run on an agarose gel. A Southern
blot transferred the DNA to a nylon membrane which was probed
with mitochondrial DNA from Fundulus heteroclitus in a lambda
phage. The radioactive membrane was exposed to X-ray film, and the
film was developed and interpreted.
Collection of Samples
The fish were collected by Dave VanTresca and others at the
Monterey office for the California Department of Fish and Game.
Using SCUBA, the collectors speared fish and tried to keep them cool
until they could be dissected. We had asked them to look for spe¬
cific species on their dives, and they identified the species.
Either they would dissect the livers for us or we dissected the
livers and the hearts also in some cases. The tissues were placed
labelled bags on ice. The people from Fish and Game kept track of
measurements of the fish, their sex, and other data for their own
