their heads. It can be very difficult to identify certain species if
not because there are just so many species to tell apart but because
many of the species look very similar. Color and pigmentation are
important in identifying species as are morphometric and meristic
characters (Phillips, 1957). Some researchers are turning to other
means of identification like gel electrophoresis.
The three species that were examined in this study were S.
atrovirens, S. melanops, and S. mystinus which are commonly
referred to as the kelp rockfish, black rockfish, and blue rockfish
respectively. All three are nearshore varieties with maximum
lengths ranging from 40 to 60 cm. All three have mottled coloring
with a predominant color that corresponds with that species name
(the kelp being a brownish-green color) (Phillips, 1957). The kelp
belongs to the subgenus, Pteropodus (seeb, unpubl.). The black and
blue varieties are more closely related to each other than they are
to the Pteropodus subgenus Seeb, 1986).
Mitochondria and Their Special Genome
Mitochondria are found in almost every cell of every eukaryotic
organism, so it is not surprising that they provide a unique and
essential function. It is generally believed that many millions of
years ago, they were independent energy-producing bacteria, and
they evolved into endosymbiotic organelles important for cell res
piration. The mechanism for the electron transport chain resides in
the mitochondria. Mitochondria divide independently of the cell and
are passed on to daughter cells through the cytoplasm. A cell has
from a few to a few thousand mitochondria depending on its energy
requirements (Alberts, et. al., 1985).
Although not always, mitochondria are usually inherited from the
mother (Park, pers. comm.). This is because the mitochondria in the
sperm (from the father) either do not survive or never enter the egg.
and the mother contributes thousands of mitochondria from her egg
As they used to be independent organisms, mitochondria use a
genetic code which is different from the nuclear genomes of their
"hosts“ and even from bacteria, which they are related to (Brown,
1985). Mitochondrial DNA is a circular duplex with a range of 16.3
to 19.2 kilobases (kb) in vertebrates (Brown, 1985). Beckwitt and
