each reaction tube. Äfter several hours in the warm water bath.
some of the liquid in the tubes had condensed on the side of the
tubes, so the tubes were microfuged for about fifteen seconds so
that its contents would all be interacting together at the bottom of
the tube. Once again, the tubes were finger-vortexed and placed in
the 37°C water bath for several hours.
If a double digestion was being performed, then 0.3 ul of the
second enzyme would be added instead of the extra 0.3 ul of the
same enzyme. Otherwise double digestions were done the same way.
Bunning Gels
The agarose gels were made with 0.8% agar in 1X TAE. The agar
solution was heated in the microwave for several minutes until it
boiled. While the agar boiled, an 11 X 14 cm gel tray was prepared
by taping its ends tightly and placing a fourteen-toothed (thin tooth
variety) comb at one end. The very hot agar was poured, making sure
there were no bubbles and no leaks from around the tape. This
cooled for about thirty minutes, at which time the tape and comb
were removed.
The fourteen lanes were each filled with the full contents (30u))
of a reaction tube using a predetermined order. One lane in each ge¬
was reserved for the standard, lambda phage cut with Hindlll in a
solution containing a blue dye. The dye has two components, one
which travels at the same pace as a 100 base pair fragment and one
at 5000 base pairs. This standard dye is used to estimate how far
the DNA has migrated in a gel. Ten microliters (.25 to .50 ug) of the
standard were loaded in the standard lane.
The gel trays were placed in the gel rigs and the rigs filled with
about one liter of 1X TAE buffer. The rig was filled with TAE to just
under the top of the gel. The power was turned on to 100 volts for
about five minutes, and the DNA entered the gel. Then, the gel was
covered with more TAE and run at a lower voltage, to achieve good
separation of the fragment bands. Voltages used ranged from
twenty-five to seventy-five volts, and the gels ran for several hours
and often overnight.
When the leading dye front had gone about three-fourths of the
way across the gel, the power was turned off, and the gel was
