Petruska (1985) found the mtDNA of rockfishes to vary between 16.9
and 17.4 kb. The genome is haploid, but there are multiple copies of
it in each mitochondrion. mtDNA encodes 37 genes in animals: 22
are for tRNA's, two for TRNA's and 13 encode proteins. There is also
a control region, which is important in the regulation of mtDNA rep¬
lication and gene expression. Much of the sequence and length varia¬
tion occurs in this control region (Brown, 1985). There is some
debate concerning the evolutionary rate of mtDNA compared to that
of nuclear DNA. In mammals for instance, mtDNA seems to have five
to ten times more variation. The data for fish are not available, but
even the data that do exist for other organisms are difficult to
interpret (Park, pers. comm.).
What makes mtDNA particularly useful in population genetics is
its means of inheritance alluded to earlier. It is maternally inher¬
ited and haploid so non-deleterious mutations in the mtDNA of one
mother are inherited in all of her descendants without mixing of
genes. That means it is possible to look at phylogenies among
groups of organisms. New branches on a phylogenetic tree are crea-
ted with new mutations, but branches on the tree die when the last
of a female individual's female descendants fail to reproduce.
Sophisticated math proves that with an initial population size of n,
all the descendants of that population will be able to trace their
mtDNA to one female ancestor in 4n generations (Avise, 1986).
BELP Analysis
To analyze DNA, it is either cut into pieces using sequence-spe¬
cific restriction endonucleases or the nucleotide bases are se¬
quenced. Restriction endonucleases are enzymes which recognize a
certain sequence of nucleotide bases and cut the DNA molecule at
that sequence. When these fragments of DNA are exposed to an elec
tric potential in a gel, they travel at different rates according to
their length. Differences in these fragment lengths between indi¬
viduals are called polymorphisms. A restriction fragment length
polymorphism (RFLP) analysis is useful for many things from
explaining phylogenies to doing recruitment studies.
It is possible to get mtDNA from a rockfish larva but only a lim¬
ited amount (Park, pers. comm.). How to use this DNA with economy
