Abstract
Mitochondrial DNA from the livers of adult rockfishes were
examined for differences in restriction fragment lengths. Äfter the
mitochondrial DNA from kelp rockfish, blue rockfish, black rockfish,
and other rockfishes was isolated, it was digested with seven dif¬
ferent six-base restriction endonucleases, run on agarose gels,
transferred to nylon membranes, probed with radioactive mitochon¬
drial DNA, and the resulting autoradiographs examined for polymor¬
phisms. We found that all the enzymes showed differences among
the three principal species, and that only the kelp rockfish displayed
polymorphisms within the species. This method might be used to
identify larval rockfish. The results also have interesting implica
tions for the population genetics of the kelp rockfish, S. atrovirens.
Introduction
Purpose of the Study
There is a good deal of interest in managing rockfish populations
because rockfish are commercially important. Part of successful
management of a population is an understanding of its recruitment
patterns. Recruitment is the state of bringing new individuals from
one life stage to another (Powers, et. al., unpubl.). In this study we
are interested in ways to study larval recruitment of rockfish.
In order to study recruitment, it is important to be able to iden¬
tify larval fish, and rockfish larvae are difficult to identify. Ways
to identify larvae accurately and consistently need to be developed.
Studies of larvae are quite difficult because a fertile mother needs
to be kept until she bears her live young, and to investigate variation
within a species requires raising several mother fish until they
release their larval offspring. A graduate student from Moss Landing
who defended his master's thesis in May had some success in looking
at pigment differences of different species' larvae in a study he
recently finished, but there are still many technical problems with
this approach.
Another way to tackle the problem is through the use of isozyme
