Hybridization
The filters were prepared for hybridization with a pre-hybridiza¬
tion solution. This solution is three parts 20X SSC and one part each
of SDS and nonfat milk in fifteen parts water. It was poured in the
bag and the air bubbles removed. Then the bag was sealed and placed
in a 65°C water bath for two hours, at which time it was ready for
hybridization.
did not grow the probe, so I cannot precisely explain the me¬
thods of growing it. However, I do know that the probe we used is a
lambda phage with a Fundulus mtDNA insert, and it was grown in E.
coli.
The probe was labelled with cytosine nucleotides containing the
phosphorus radioisotope 32P. To label the probe, 12 ul (.25 ug) of
the probe DNA and 1.0 ul of random DNA primers were boiled in a
screw-top tube for five minutes. While the DNA was boiling, a mix¬
ture of 2.0 ul of Klenow, 2.0 ul of adenine, thymine, and guanine, and
2.5 ul of Klenow buffer was made. The hot DNA was cooled quickly
on ice before the Klenow enzyme mixture was added. This safeguard
prevents denaturing of the enzyme when the two solutions are
mixed. Äfter the Klenow was added to the DNA, 5.0 ul of the radio¬
active dCTP was added, and the reaction occurred for the next two
to four hours in a lead container.
Eighty microliters of 1X TE were added to the radioactive probe
to stop the reaction. To remove the unincorporated dCTP's, the probe
mixture was run through a sephadex column and microfuged for about
five minutes. The filtered solution was boiled in a screw-top tube
for ten minutes to denature the DNA strands. Then, the bag with the
nylon membranes was cut open, the radioactive probe injected into
the bag, the bag resealed, the contents mixed around inside the bag,
and the bag placed into a 65°C water bath for twelve hours.
Next, the membranes had to be washed. The liquid contents were
carefully disposed of into the radioactive waste, and the membranes
were rinsed in a wash solution of 0.2 % SDS and 2X SSC. This rinse
requires only enough wash solution to rinse off the membranes and
still be a reasonable amount to throw away in the radioactive waste,
For the next wash, the membranes soaked in more of the same wash
solution for ten minutes. For the last wash, the wash solution was
replaced with fresh wash solution which had been diluted by one¬
half, and the membranes soaked for fifteen minutes. The membranes
