The kelp species divides into two main groups of RFLP patterns,
which I call kelp A and kelp B. Eight kelp individuals that were col¬
lected together could always be analyzed in each of the digests, and
four were A type while four were B type. In the six reliable enzymes
we tested, there are five restriction sites which show polymorph¬
isms in S. atrovirens, the kelp rockfish. One of these polymorph¬
isms was a single site difference in Pstl in one individual (of the A
type) which set it apart from the other kelp individuals. With the
other four site differences, the individuals of the A type always
segregate together as do all the individuals of the B type. The black
and yellow rockfish (S. chrysomelas) segregates with the kelp B
type in digests with Clal, EcoRI, and Hindlll, and it segregates with
both kelp types together in the ECORV digest. The copper rockfish
(S. caurinus) segregates with the kelp B type in the Hindlll digest at
both sites, and with both kelp types together in the ECORV digest.
The gopher rockfish (S. carnatus) segregates with kelp B type in the
Clal digest, and with both kelp types together in the BamHI, ECORV
and Pstl digests. It is not surprising that these three individuals
from other species segregate closely with the kelp rockfish when
one considers that all four belong to the same subgenus, Pteropo¬
dus. If the five groups of fish (including the two groups within S.
atrovirens) are all in the same subgenus, then why is it that kelp A
is so different from all the other groups of fish? The variation
within the kelp species is greater than the overall variation of the
subgenus, an obviously significant result.
There are at least four explanations for the result that in terms
of mtDNA, the kelp A group is so different from the other fish in the
subgenus. The first is simply that the kelp rockfish individuals
were not identified correctly in the first place. The species most
easily confused with the kelp rockfish is the grass rockfish (S.
rastrelliger) which is also in the same subgenus with the kelp
rockfish. One would expect that the grass rockfish's mtDNA would
look similar to the mtDNA of the other species in the subgenus,
which all look very similar in RFLP analysis. If it is not actually
kelp rockfish and not grass rockfish either, it might be a more dis¬
tantly related fish in the genus.
The other three explanations of the strange result try to explain
the result assuming the species were identified correctly. They also
try to account for the fact that it is unusual for a species to support
