two different strains of mtDNA because branches seen with mtDNA
on the tree of an organism are expected to die out with time as dis¬
cussed earlier. The second explanation is that there is actually a
cryptic species that has never been recognized before. This seems
unlikely, but some support comes from the kelp rockfish's depth dis¬
tribution. Often, two species of rockfish which occupy a similar
niche will live in mutually exclusive depth ranges. For instance,
Hallacher (1977) found that the black and yellow rockfish occupies
the shallower water, and the gopher rockfish lives in the deeper
water in the Monterey Bay area. In the same study, he found the kelp
rockfish distributed evenly through the different depths. Perhaps,
two species could be recognized, one would find that the spatial
distribution would get divided as it did in the above example. Using
allozyme studies, it should be simple to test the hypothesis that
there is a cryptic species. Comparing the kelp A mtDNA type to the
kelp B type, if one were to find that an allozyme is fixed in one type,
and a different allozyme is fixed in the other type, then that would
be proof of the cryptic species. The third and fourth explanations
are that the present kelp species comes from two different popula¬
tions that were not mixing genes but are now, and their mtDNA types
both persist. The two populations could have been different species
which hybridized, resulting in the present species of kelp rockfish.
Hybridizations are not at all uncommon in Sebastes (Seeb, 1986),
and the possibility exists that a hybrid was once fertile. The fourth
explanation is that a population of kelp rockfish was once isolated
from another population of kelp rockfish long enough for a different
mtDNA type to develop, and now those two populations are mixing.
Support for this would come from allozyme studies which have un¬
fortunately not been conducted in depth for the kelp species. A stu¬
dent from last year's spring class found little allozymic variation
within the kelp species (Bachmann, 1989), a finding which supports
the last hypothesis. Another one of her findings was a significant
difference in allozymes between the kelp rockfish and the black and
yellow rockfish, which contradicts the earlier hypothesis that there
exists a cryptic species. If there were a cryptic species, one would
expect that there would be more allozymic variation within the kelp
species than Bachmann found. Öther evidence which suggests that
isolation may have once occurred is the current evidence for some
geographical separation. It is known that there is a geographic
boundary between central and southern California populations of S.
﻿16
