studies. However, in rockfish there is little variation within spe¬
cies and not enough between species so that recruitment studies
using isozymes are impractical (Seeb, 1986). Besides, it is not
clear if the isozymes that a larva uses are the same ones he uses as
an adult. DNA studies of rockfish have not been investigated until
recently. Seeb has begun to investigate mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)
patterns in a group of rockfish to better understand their phylo¬
genetic relationships. MtDNA is particularly useful because of its
pattern of inheritance. It is possible that a species has one or a few
distinct types of mtDNA that no other species shares while it is
harder to find a unique version of an enzyme that sets that species
apart in isozyme studies.
We chose to study mitochondrial DNA over nuclear DNA for a few
reasons. First, there are a lot more copies of an individual fish's
mtDNA than its nuclear DNA because there are more mitochondria
per cell than nuclei, and each mitochondrion has several copies of
its genome (Alberts, et. al., 1985). Second, mtDNA has a pattern of
inheritance which helps in examining branching patterns on phylo¬
genetic trees. Third, its possibly higher mutation rate might show
more differences than would nuclear DNA.
Ihe Genus Sebastes
The genus Sebastes is made up of nearly 100 species of rock-
fishes worldwide, and more than sixty of these are found in Cali¬
fornia waters (Burgess and Axelrod, 1984; Miller, 1972). It is the
most speciose fish in the eastern North Pacific. As a group, rockfish
make up the biggest catch for the fishing industry in California
(Amidei, 1986). Both commercial fisheries and sportfishers fish for
rockfish.
Some rockfish live near the shore on rocky bottoms or in kelp
beds while other species live offshore as far out as 300 miles and
as deep as 450 m (Phillips, 1957). Sebastes is in the only subfam¬
ily of Scorpaenidae that gives birth to live young (Seeb, 1986). That
is, rockfish have internal fertilization and viviparity. Adults range
in length from 15 cm to 90 cm and longevity varies from less than
ten years to as long as 100 years (Amidei, 1986). They are charac¬
terized by spines found on their dorsal and anal fins and also on
