Discussion
We looked at mitochondrial DNA in rockfishes in the first place
because we wanted to see if it would be a useful tool for identifying
larvae in recruitment studies. With the limited scope of these
findings, the answer appears to be yes because mitochondrial DNA is
cut into different patterns of fragment sizes by certain enzymes
according to species. All the enzymes we used showed differences
between species.
It is important to note that much of the raw data from the auto
radiographs and polaroids was quite difficult to interpret due to
experimental problems and the poor resolution we could see. was
able to see the band patterns for about ten individuals for each spe¬
cies with each enzyme; however, I did not always see that many
individuals. Nevertheless, the results I reported seem consistent
for all the enzymes with the exception of Xhol. In the case of Xhol.
could detect two patterns: one which appeared to be a single frag¬
ment which had one restriction site resulting in a 17 kb fragment
and one which resulted in two bands of lengths 14 and 3 kb, presu¬
mably due to one additional site. It is often difficult to see the
bands of small DNA fragments because they bind less ethidium, and
the radioactive probe has less to bond to on a small piece of DNA.
Larger fragment sizes are difficult to estimate because they tend to
cluster together due to the logarithmic nature of their migration
rate through the gel. Thus, it is easy to see how I could not have
seen a small band in some lanes and how 1 could have mistaken a 14
kb fragment for a 17 kb fragment in the Xhol digests. For this and
other reasons which will be brought up in this section of the paper,
would propose that the data 1 reported from the Xhol digests be con¬
sidered invalid.
The data from the other enzyme digests show that RFLP analysis
using mtDNA is useful for differentiating between at least kelp,
blue, and black rockfishes. EcoRl has different banding patterns for
each of these species, so it could conceivably be used as the diag¬
nostic enzyme for them. However, the enzymes we used did not
show differences between the individuals from some of the other
species (copper, gopher, and black and yellow rockfishes) and some
of the kelp rockfish. However, this is a very interesting result
which I can discuss only after describing the variation within the
kelp rockfish species.
14
