enzymes tested. Only one polymorphism was detected in the blue
rockfish, and that was with Xhol; two of the blue rockfish had a
restriction site that was not shared by the other blues.
Kelp rockfish usually had two polymorphisms with each enzyme
tested: only with BamHI and ECORV were no polymorphisms detected.
Hindlll had two sites that were variable within the species, and the
other four enzymes each had one variable site. In eight kelp rockfish
individuals that were collected together, two groups of four segre¬
gated together in four of the six variable sites. Only one individual
kelp differed from the other kelps at the fifth site, and the sixth
site that is variable within kelps is the same one that seemed to be
variable in the blue rockfish (a cut that creates a 3 kb fragment in
Xhol.) Double digests were used to more closely examine the poly¬
morphisms within the kelp species. Clal and BamHl were used to¬
gether (see figure 1), and Pstl and Clal were tested together also.
The polymorphisms we had suspected were confirmed by the double
digests.
In addition to restriction fragment length polymorphisms in the
kelps, length variation was also observed. One of the individuals is
consistently smaller than the others, and there are possibly other
length differences that are harder to detect.
All of the enzymes showed some differences between the species
(see figures 2-8). It is not possible to make accurate maps of the
restriction sites because there are no sequence data available for
these samples and because not enough double digests were per¬
formed. Therefore, the following figures are only proposed restric¬
tion maps for each of the enzymes. They are schematic representa¬
tions of my best interpretations of the bands I was able to detect on
either the autoradiographs or the polaroid pictures.
For example, in figure , we see that BamHI, had two polymorph¬
isms. The blue, kelp, gopher, and olive rockfishes had a pattern con¬
sisting of two bands, a pattern which would be produced by two re¬
striction sites. The black rockfish's DNA digest shows only one
band which means there was one restriction site. These sites are
labelled in the diagrams at the bottom of the figure. According to
the most parsimonious interpretation of the data, site a is shared by
all the species, and site b has been lost in black rockfish. The top
line in the schematic of the bands represents the well where the
lane started. The numbers next to the other lines give the approx¬
imate lengths of those fragments in kilobases. (O.C. is an abbrevia¬
12
