individual components. Though it is possible for strains to have different metabolic capacities
when alone than when in association with each other, if a bacterial community can use carbon
sources that none of its known isolates can, it suggests that there are strains within the community
that have not been isolated.
The Biolog metabolic fingerprint for all of the sheaths tested were very similar (Table 3).
The patterns for the replicate for the PKI plates were nearly identical, as were the patterns of the
WH2 isolate plates. The plates of the PKl and WH2 isolates showed patterns distinct from each
other. There were at least four carbon sources that tested negative for metabolism by both isolates
that tested positive in the sheath homogenates. These carbon sources in which utilization was
unique to the sheath homogenate were a-cyclodextrin, D-arabitol, D-sorbitol, and sucrose.
The Biolog database indicated match between the pattern of the PKl isolate and Shewanella
putrefaciens A with a similarity value of 0.843. The pattern of the WH2 strain did not match any
bacteria in the Biolog database to propose any identification.
Discussion
The finding that the number of bacteria ranges from 3.9x108 to 3.5x10° per sheath (Fig. 2),
is significantly higher than the previous estimate of 10° to 108 made by Biggs and Epel (1991).
The numbers of bacteria also appeared to increase with the age of the egg sheath. Propidium
iodide and DAPI staining indicated that 68% of the bacteria in the sheaths were viable. Upon
plating of the sheath homogenate on media, it was found that of the viable bacteria, a significant
fraction, between 50 and 70%, cannot be cultivated with conventional techniques (Fig. 4). Biolog
analysis of sheath homogenate showed that the metabolic characteristics of the bacterial community
were fairly consistent. There were at least four carbon sources that could not be used by either the
PKI or the WH2 isolates that could be used by the community. The isolate PKI was also
identified as a close relative of Shewanella putrefaciens A.
Development and refinement of a homogenization procedure is important for further study
of bacterial communities in egg sheaths since manual homogenization alone leads to clumpy
