homogenates: one younger sheath, an older sheath, and a pair of plates prepared from the same
homogenate (composed of two sheaths of similar age), but incubated at different temperatures.
Plates were incubated for up to three days, or until distinct readable patterns arose on the plates,
and analyzed for the presence of purple color in each well.
Two different bacterial isolates, PKI and WH2, from culture plating were suspended in
FSW and plated into Biolog plates, which were incubated for three days at room temperature and
read. These isolate plates were done in duplicate.
Results
Bacterial Count Assay Development
Treatment with sodium periodate solution (SOmM with 25mM sodium acetate at pH 4.5)
for 45 minutes followed by thorough hand homogenization of about 0.25 g of sheath material in
one ml FSW in a glass homogenizer for at least two minutes resulted in the best dissolution of the
sheath. To maximize the release of bacteria, 0.1 g of Imm diameter glass beads were added and
the homogenate was subjected to one minute vortex agitation. This procedure resulted in effective
breakdown of sheath material, high counts, even distribution, and bright clearly visible bacteria
with low background under DAPI fluorescence. Qualitative observations on the results of the
various homogenization methods are shown in Table 1.
A control for potential cell lysis resulting from the periodate treatment and homogenization
was performed using Shewanella samples. Equal volumes of concentrated bacterial suspension
were used. One was subjected to periodate and homogenization identical to that used for the sheath
while the other was resuspended in FSW. The samples were then counted using DAPI staining.
The numbers of bacteria counted with the control Shewanella samples were slightly lower than the
counts without the homogenization treatment (Table 2).
Bacterial Counts
The total bacterial population per egg sheath varied from 3.9x108 to 3.5x10° (Fig. 2).
There appeared to be a trend of increasing bacterial number with embryo developmental stage. The
variation of bacterial numbers among sheaths also increased with embryo stage.
