distribution of the bacteria. Incubation in an acidic solution of sodium periodate was an effective
means of breaking down sheath material. The chemical mechanism for this breakdown can
probably be ascribed, at least partially, to oxidative cleavage of polysaccharides in the sheath
material. This procedure allows direct quantification of the number of bacteria present and should
also prove useful in future research as a preparation for immunofluorescent identification of
specific bacterial strains within the community. This procedure seems innocuous since there was
no bacterial lysis due to the homogenizing procedure.
While the homogenizing procedure was reasonably effective, there was invariably some
unhomogenized, bacteria-laden, sheath material which means that the counts derived with this
procedure are at least mild underestimates. The number of bacteria was surprisingly high
especially considering this limitation.
Correlation of bacterial numbers with relative age using squid embryo developmental stage
provided a crude means of comparison of bacterial numbers with age of the egg sheaths. There
appears to be a trend of increasing bacterial numbers with age of the egg cases. However, due to
the large variation between individual egg cases and the extremely low level of replication in this
experiment, further study is necessary before any firm assertions can be made. Ideally future
experimentation will include the use of squid eggs laid in captivity so that their absolute age will be
known and the course of bacterial proliferation can be tracked more directly.
The number of viable bacteria was relatively high - over two thirds. This assay was only
performed on a single egg sheath so further experimentation should include replication on many
more sheaths. In future experimentation, all egg sheath preparations will include propidium iodide
as well as DAPI so that the number of viable bacteria can be determined along with the total
number. The main problem with the use of the propidium iodide/DAPI assay is that it is limited to
determination of membrane integrity and is not a measure of actual biological function. This means
that there may be some nonviable bacteria whose membranes are still intact that may be incorrectly
considered viable. In order to address this problem, an experiment with a compound such as
fluorescein diacetate which indicates cellular metabolic activity should be used in combination with
