propidium and DAPI staining. This would allow an assessment of the validity of propidium
staining as an indicator of viability.
The most interesting result of this experiment was the finding that a significantfraction of
total viable bacteria present in the egg sheath that cannot be cultured. The fact that the PKI strain
did not grow on the 5% medium is illustrative of the dependence of different bacteria on culturing
conditions. Therefore it is likely that some of the non-cultivable, viable bacteria represent entire
strains that have not been characterized in previous studies of the egg cases.
Future investigation should include efforts to cultivate more strains by varying culture
environments including even lower nutrient concentrations, and anaerobic and microaerophilic
conditions. The AN gland of mature squid should also be examined in a similar fashion to
determine what percentage of those bacteria are cultivable and whether any additional strains
discovered in the egg cases are acquired vertically from their parent or horizontally from the
environment. It would be ideal if the bacteria from freshly laid egg cases and the AN gland of their
parent were plated and their isolates compared.
Another possibility for research efforts to elucidate the role of bacteria in the egg cases
would be to incubate a female squid in antibiotics for several days prior to spawning in order to
eliminate any bacteria and then observe any differences between development of the resulting
clutch and that of untreated egg cases.
The results of the Biolog assay indicated that the PKI isolate is related to Shewanella
putrefaceins A. It is likely that this is the same strain isolated previously by Kaufman
(unpublished) in the AN gland and egg sheaths. The uncertainty in this identification and the lack
of any identification for the WH2 isolate shows the need for more definitive and rigorous
identification methods. Further research will employ the use of modern molecular and genetic
techniques to identify isolated strains.
The patterns of carbon usage for the different sheaths were nearly identical, indicating that
the metabolic characteristics, though not necessarily the composition, of their bacterial communities
remains fairly uniform despite differences in incubation temperature and egg case age.
