Introduction
The market squid, Loligo opalescens, mates and deposits finger-like egg cases on sandy
bottoms. During the three to five weeks required for the eggs to mature and hatch, the seemingly
vulnerable eggs suffer little mortality due to predation or infection (Fields, 1965).
One obvious protection mechanism is the sheath that surrounds the egg cases. This sheath
arises from secretions of the nidamental gland and the accessory nidamental (AN) gland (Fields,
1965). Previous work has found that at least two strains of bacteria, of genus Roseobacter and
Shewanella, are transmitted vertically from the AN gland of the adult female to the egg cases
(Thompson, 1997; Kaufman et al., 1998). One strain, Shewanella spp., has been found to have
antifungal properties (Kaufman, unpublished results). This isolate, like its close relative
Shewanella putrefaciens, was found to produce the noxious polyamide putrescine which was
shown to deter potential predators (Hoerner, 1996). It was hypothesized that these symbiotic
bacteria may be responsible for anti-fungal protection as well as other natural defenses of the eggs.
It is accepted that many bacterial strains cannot be cultivated with conventional techniques
and that the classical procedure of cultivation, isolation, and identification is therefore inadequate to
describe bacterial communities. The description of two strains previously isolated from the AN
gland and egg case may therefore be an underestimate of their bacterial diversity. While Biggs and
Epel (1991) estimated that total bacterial population of an egg sheath to be between 106-108 using
electron microscopy, there has been no work done on what portion of the bacteria present are
cultivable or on how the number of bacteria changes during development.
In this paper, DAPI staining with epifluorescent microscopy was used to address the
question of the numbers of bacteria present in the egg sheath. Another assay using both DAPI and
propidium iodide was employed to determine what portion of the bacteria were viable. These
numbers were compared to the number of bacteria cultivatable as determined by plating on culture
dishes. The results of these experiments indicate that a limited portion (30 to 50%) of the viable
bacteria present in the egg sheath are cultivatable under conventional cultivation conditions. In
