Number of Viable Bacteria
Of 714 bacteria stained with DAPI, 226 were also stained with propidium iodide indicating
that about 32% of the bacteria were nonviable, while the remaining 68% were viable (Fig. 3).
Bacterial Culture
At least three distinct colony morphotypes arose on the culture plates. The first formed
pink colonies and was dubbed PKI, the second formed white colonies and was designated WH2.
and the third which was also white, but formed smaller colonies was designated TN3. The PK1
and WH2 colonies were easily visible after only one day incubation on the 2216 agar. The TN3
colony type was only visible on the plates after three day incubation and were by far the most
numerous.
The 5x10° dilution was overgrown with bacterial colonies and could not be counted. Each
colony type was about ten times as numerous on the 5x10" dilution plates than on the
corresponding 5x10° dilution plates. The colonies on the full concentration 2216 marine agar
plates grew faster than those on the 5% plates.
The full concentration 2216 plates exhibited rapid colony growth and supported all three
colony types. Growth of all colony types on the 5% 2216 plates was much slower. The PKl
colony type did not grow at all on the lower nutrient plates, while much higher numbers of the
WH2 grew on them. The TN3 type grew in nearly equal numbers on both agar concentrations.
Sole-Carbon-Source Utilization
The Biolog system is an assay used to classify bacteria by determining the different carbon
sources that they can use. Biolog plates contain 96 wells, each of which contain a different carbon
source as well as a tetrazolium violet reduction dye, which turns purple upon reduction, indicating
that the bacteria were capable of metabolizing that source. For isolated bacterial strains, the pattern
obtained from this assay can then be entered into a database and compared to those of known
strains and used to identify the bacteria.
For bacterial communities, this essay is not useful as a means of identifying its
constituents, but it can still indicate differences in metabolic capabilities between communities and
