To determine whether significant bacterial lysis resulted from sodium periodate treatment
and bead-beating, samples of Roseobacter were suspended in FSW, centrifuged, and resuspended
in a small volume of FSW. Equal amounts of this concentrated suspension were pipetted into
different tubes. The control was resuspended in ImL FSW, while the other was incubated in the
sodium periodate solution for an hour in the dark and then beaten with beads. Equal volumes of
prepared suspension were stained, collected onto filters, placed on slides, and counted.
Bacterial Counts
Egg sheaths were prepared with the periodate technique as described above involving
sequential dissection, fixation, homogenization, bead agitation, staining, and filtration. The filters
were mounted on slides and then examined with a UV fluorescent DAPI filter set with immersion
oil at 1000x magnification. Bacteria were counted in an ocular grid with known dimensions. Ten
fields were counted on each slide and the counts averaged. The number of bacteria per gram of
sheath material and bacteria per sheath were calculated using the total sheath weight, the weight of
the section homogenized, the volume of homogenate prepared, the volume of homogenate loaded
into the filtration column, the total filtration area, and the area of the ocular grid.
A relative age for each egg sheath was found by examining the squid embryos and
determining their developmental stage using stages and diagrams from Arnold (1965) and Segawa,
Yang, Marthy, and Hanlon (1988).
Number of Viable Bacteria
The percent of viable bacteria was determined by homogenizing an egg sheath section using
only the hand homogenizer and glass beads (no periodate treatment). A small volume was then
stained with two different DNA-binding fluorescent stains, the membrane-permeant DAPI, and the
relatively impermeant propidium iodide and incubated five minutes before being collected onto a
filter. The filter was examined under 1000x magnification using the DAPI filter set to view DAPI¬
stained cells and a Rhodamine filter set to view cells stained with propidium iodide. The total
number of cells was counted with the DAPI filter, while those stained with propidium iodide and
