seen with the Rhodamine filter were counted as dead. Viable cells were calculated by subtracting
the number viable from the total. The percent viable was calculated by dividing the number viable
by total bacteria.
Bacterial Culture
Egg sheaths were dissected, ground with the glass homogenizer and bead beaten without
any chemical treatment. The homogenate was serially diluted to concentrations of 5x103, 5x10“,
and 5x10° with FSW. A known volume of the dilutions was plated on plates with complete 2216
marine agar or a low nutrient agar containing 5% 2216. The plates were incubated for three days
at room temperature. The number and type of bacterial colonies that arose were counted.
A known volume of the initial homogenate was stained, filtered, and the number of bacteria
counted with DAPI fluorescence.
Using the same calculation methods as for the other bacterial counts, the number of bacteria
present in the sample was determined. Based on this number, the dilution series, and volume
plated, the number of bacteria on each plate was determined. This was then multiplied by the
percent viable as determined above, to approximate the number of viable bacteria plated onto each
culture dish. This number was then compared to the number of colonies found on each plate.
Sole-Carbon-Source Utilization
The egg sheath was dissected, homogenized and beaten with beads. It was digested with a
large enough volume that the fluid supernatant alone could be used without the flocculent material
on the bottom. This supernatant was then plated into the 96 wells of a Biolog GN2 Microplate. A
total of four Biolog assays were performed on egg sheath material. The first plate was prepared
with homogenate from a single egg sheath with stage 24 embryos and incubated at 15°C. Another,
slightly older sheath (stage 28 embryos) was homogenized, plated and incubated at 15°C. Two egg
sheaths from the same clutch (stage 27 embryos) were ground together (in order to provide
sufficient bacterial density) and the homogenate divided into two plates; one was incubated at 15°C
and the other at room temperature. Thus the four plates were prepared from three different
