addition, Biolog plates were used to measure the metabolic capacity of two cultivatable strains as
well as the metabolic capacity of the entire community.
Materials and Methods
Egg cases were collected from Monterey Bay at depths of 16 to 20 meters by scuba diving.
They were brought into the laboratory and kept in flow-through seawater tanks at 13°C.
Bacterial Count Assay Development
Egg cases were rinsed with filtered seawater (FSW) and the sheath dissected away from the
eggs, and weighed. The middle third of the sheath (Fig. 1) was then cut, weighed and fixed
overnight in ImL FSW with a final concentration of 3.7% formaldehyde at 4°C.
In order for bacterial enumeration with DAPI staining, the material to be examined, the egg
case sheath in this case, must be homogenized. This ensures that when the bacteria are then pulled
down onto a filter, they will be evenly distributed so that areas on the filter viewed with
epifluorescent microscopy will be representative of the entire filter area. Thus the development of a
homogenization procedure was essential to this method of counting bacteria. The fixed sheath
section was then subjected to experimental homogenizing treatments. Chemical treatments
included: a control with no additional treatment; acid (pH 3); 50mM dithiothreitol at pH 9; 5OmM
sodium periodate with 25mM sodium acetate at pH 9; collagenase at 276U/mL. Physical
homogenization methods included use of a glass homogenizer, a high speed electric rotary "Tissue
Tearor," and the addition of glass beads with vortex agitation.
After homogenization, 25uL of homogenate was loaded onto a filtration column along with
3mL FSW, and stained for three minutes with the DNA-binding, fluorescent dye, DAPI (4’, 6-
diamidino-2-phenylindole) at a final concentration of lOug/mL. The bacteria in the homogenate
were then collected onto a 0.22 micron black polycarbonate filter using a vacuum pump at -4psi.
The filter was then placed on a slide and viewed with a DAPI fluorescence filter set with oil
at 1000x magnification. The homogenizing techniques were evaluated on the basis of the
abundance and brightness of bacteria, evenness of bacterial distribution on the slide, and
breakdown of the sheath material.
