of these neurons. Fusion presumbly must occur before the giant axons can be
clearly identified morphologically in the stellar nerves.
Stage 27 embryos display a rapid increase in the level of sodium channel
mRNA. The increased production of GFLNI mRNA at stage 27 immediately
precedes giant axon function which is first detectable at stage 28 (Gilly et al, 1991).
Again, lag time between GFLNI mRNA expression and GFLNI Na channel protein
translation may be relevant to the one-stage mismatch between molecular and
anatomical /functional observations. As the embryo passes beyond stage 28 and
approaches the hatching, parallel increases occur in the level of GFLNI expression,
rapidity of the escape response, and size of the giant axons (Gilly et al, 1991).
Speculation must surround the correlations drawn between molecular
expression of GFLNI mRNA and anatomical/behavioral development relating to
the giant axon, primarily because the relationship between GFLNI mRNA levels
and the strength of the escape jet is undoubtedly complex. For example, because
GFLNI mRNA may be translated more than once, the level of sodium channel
mRNA detected by RNAse Protection Assay may not directly indicate the number
of functional sodium channels in the giant axon. Thus, reduced levels of GFLNI
mRNA expression, such as at stage 29, does not necessarily reflect lower numbers of
sodium channel proteins. Moreover, alternative gene splicing can lead to different
types of sodium channel mRNA that might cross-react with PCR primers and
RNAse Protection Assay probes.
Many of these problems can be addressed by further studies based on the
work described here. Dissection of embryonic stellage ganglion tissue for RNA
isolation can limit cross-reaction between the probe and other sodium channel
types found in neurons from the brain. The spatial distribution of GFLNI mRNA
expression can also be determined by in situ hybridization. Finally, analysis of
GFLNI protein itself, such as by western blotting, will clarify the temporal
