feed. Before feeding, the guts of the corixids did not appear red, while
after feeding the guts of some did appear red. An examination of the reddish
gut contents did not reveal any recognizable Tigriopus parts, However, the
reddish-orange oil droplets in the corixids did look similiar to those in
Tigriopus. It is possible that the corixids only suck the internal contents
out of Tigriopus with their stylets. However, no empty Tigriopus exoskeletons
were found at the ends of experiments.
At Hopkins Marine Station Tigriopus are maintained in an outdoor con-
crete pool about h.5 meters in diameter. They are fed "TetraMin" fish food.
In the flocculant material on the bottom of this Tigriopus pool some red
decomposing pieces of the "TetraMin" fish food were found. The corixids used
in most of the feeding experiments were captured in this pool. The gut contents
of many freshly captured specimens was red. Corixids starved for several days
were fed fresh red "TetraMin", or red "TetraMin" which had been allowed to sit
in filtered sea water for two days, to determine if the fish food was responsible
for their red gut coloration instead of Tigriopus. The results of these experi¬
ments (Table II) indicate that the fresh "TetraMin" is not responsible for the
red gut coloration; only one of five corixids tested with the decomposing
"TetraMin" had gut contents similiar to those of corixids just taken from the
concrete pool. The reddish-orange oil droplets were also present in the freshly
collected corixids' guts.
Usinger (1956) reports that corixids do not subsist on the flocculant
bottom deposits but eat animal food such as larvae; the corixids sweep larvae
into their mouths with their first tarsi (Pennak, 1953). Trichocorixia were
not observed eating any larvae, but their gut contents were occassionally red
after feeding. No larval fragments were found in the corixids' guts.
The results of these experiments do not clearly indicate that
Trichocorixia either is or is not a predator of Tigriopus.
