Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 30
THE VELIGER
LITERATURE CITED
provided by the papillae and the highly vascularized
nature of these papillae.
HARRISON, F M.
1961.
Some excretory processes in the abalone Haliotis ruf¬
SUMMARY
escens.
Journ. Exp. Biol. 39 179-192
LEVINSON & MACFATE
1. Tests were performed on the snails, Tegula funebralis
1951. Clinical laboratory diagnosis.
4th ed.; pp. 1 - 1146.
and T. brunnea, to determine the nature and quantity of
Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia
their excretory products and the organs of excretion.
NEEDHAM, J.
2. Standard colorimetric assays were used on homo-
1935.
Problems of nitrogen catabolism in invertebrates. II.
genates prepared from the ctenidium, digestive gland,
Correlations between uricotelic metabolism and habitat in the
right and left kidneys. Total non-protein nitrogen, ammo¬
phylum Mollusca. Biochem. Journ. 29: 238-251
nia, urea, and uric acid were determined.
PICKEN, L. E. R.
3. Uric acid was observed to be the major excretory
1937.
The mechanism of urine formation in invertebrates. II.
product of these snails. It accounted for 11.8% to 76.6%
The excretory mechanism of certain Mollusca. Journ. Exp.
of the total non-protein nitrogen in the right kidneys, the
Biol. 14: 20 -34
only organs where this waste product was detectable.
TODD, SANFORD & STILWELL
Only slight traces of ammonia were found in the digestive
1948.
Clinical diagnosis by laboratory methods.
11th ed.
gland, and no urea was present in the tissues tested.
W. B. Saunders Co.; i-xi + 954 pp.
The Distribution and Movement of Tegula funebralis
in the Intertidal Region of Monterey Bay, California
(Mollusca: Gastropoda)
WILLIAM M. WARA
AND
BENJAMIN B. WRIGHT
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(9 Text figures)
tigated Tegula funebralis intertidal distribution and move¬
INTRODUCTION
ment patterns in relation to certain biological and physical
Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854) is very common
environmental factors. Before investigating movement pat-
along the west coast of California, although little work
terns, we wanted an accurate, correlatable distribution
has been done on its intertidal distribution. Hewatt (1934
analysis for several areas along Mussel Point, Pacific
describes its distribution as between the plus one and plus
Grove, California. To do this, we collected information
five foot level above mean lower low water. Ricketts and
pertaining to numbers and size classes of this snail along
Calvin (1962, pp. 352-355) put the population center at
with environmental data of the areas, such as vertical level
the three foot tide level. Neither reference describes the
of collection, algal covering, area configuration, substra¬
distribution extent along the intertidal region. We inves-
tum, and wave and current action. Factors that seem to
