Page 28
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Excretory Products of Tegula funebralis and Tegula brunnea
(Mollusca : Gastropoda)
YOLANDA I. LEONARD
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(1 Table)
kidney was used since it could be more readily dissected
INTRODUCTION
free of other tissue.
QUESTIONS CONCERNING the excretory products of Tegula
All four tissues from each group of ten snails were
funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854) arose when some rather
removed, blotted on a piece of filter paper, and weighed
casual qualitative tests were performed on the kidneys of
on a Mettler balance. A tungstic acid filtrate prepared
the snail. The right kidney appeared to contain a high
by Haden’s modification of Folin’s method (TODD, SAN
concentration of uric acid while the left kidney had none.
FORD & STILWELL, 1948, p. 352) was used to remove pro¬
This is a quantitative study of the excretory products of
tein from a tissue homogenate. The four filtrates from
this snail and the related species, T. brunnea (PHILIPPI,
the tissues of each group were stored between tests in a
1848).
freezer.
In order to interpret the results of the tests for excretory
METHODS
products, it was necessary to determine the total non¬
protein nitrogen in the various tissues. This was done by
The snails, both Tegula funebralis and Tegula brunnea,
used in these experiments were taken from the same area
the method of Folin and Wu (TODD, SANFORD & STIL
WELL, 1948, pp. 353-354) which was modified by de
near the Hopkins Marine Station in Pacific Grove, Cali¬
creasing all the constituents in proportion so that the
fornia. They were collected at low tide; all except two
final volume after the addition of Nessler’s solution would
groups were immediately killed and the tissues to be
be 10 ml.
investigated were prepared as protein-free filtrates. Two
Ammonia was determined by adding 1 ml of Nessler's
groups were kept in a tank in the laboratory for a week
solution to a solution of 1 ml of protein-free filtrate
before they were examined; they were not fed during this
and 8 ml. of distilled water. Urea was determined by the
period. The Tégula funebralis used were approximately
2- 2.5 cm. in diameter. The Tegula brunnea were slightly
modified method of Hawk-Andes (LEVINSON & MACFATE.
1952, pp. 370-371) ; the volume of all the reagents was
smaller, 1.8 - 2.0 cm. in diameter. It was necessary to
reduced proportionally to give a final volume after Ness¬
use large snails in order to obtain samples free of other
lerization of 10 ml. Twelve drops of a five per cent urease
contaminating tissues. A few Tegula montereyi (KIENER,
solution made from Arlington tablets and purified with
1850), 2.5 - 3.0 cm. in diameter, were used; these came
permutit powder were used. Benedict's method for the
from kelp beds forty feet under surface.
quantitative determination of uric acid (TODD, SANFORL
The tissues examined were the ctenidium, digestive
& STILWELL, 1948, pp. 361-362) was used without modi¬
gland, and the two kidneys. The latter (which could be
fication.
more accurately called coelomoducts) are very different
morphologically. The left kidney is known as the papillary
RESULTS
sac because of the many villi on its internal surface. Each
villus has a hemocoelic space in its center. The right
URIC ACID was found in significant quantities in the right
kidney has two lobes; the anterior one runs parallel to the
kidneys of both Tegula funebralis and Tegula brunnea,
left kidney, and the posterior one is behind the pericardial
but no trace of this compound was found in the left kid
cavity. The left kidney is white; in both Tegula funebrali,
neys of these snails. In Tegula montereyi there was no
and Tegula brunnea the right kidney is green in males
detectable uric acid present in any of the tissues tested.
and yellow in females. The posterior lobe of the right
Slight traces of free ammonia were found in the digestive
