recentstudy on  an indicated that an absence from the pool in which
an individual was first caught did not necessarily mean the fish had stayed from the
area (Richkus 1978). Instead, by sampling a range of pools once every bo weeks
for a period of 4 months, Richkus presented the ldea that s anas are not
particular to one certaln pool but reside in a "home-range" made up of pools in a
glen area. This report of cottid movement altered the concept of homing as a return
to one specific area of the intertidal that the fish knows will be a tidepool at low tide. It
suggested, instead, that these animals may be residential to an area of tidepools and
regularly refuge in a number of these with a high fidellyy for an intertidal area rather
than to a specific pool. Richkus did not, however, follow the fish on a day to day
basis or monitor their activities at high tide.
As first postulated by Green (1971), the appearance of the same individual in
the same tidepool does not necessarily indicate an Instance of homing, for the fish in
question could have stayed in the pool at high tide and never employed a homing
behavior at all. Green (1971) noted that  us 'regularty" leaves
ts tidepool at high tide In sheltered areas of the intertidal, but he also found that in
more exposed areas the amount of vacancy is markedly reduced. As of yet, there
have been no studles addressing the high tide movements of wnxvtus ana and
although the abilly to home reguires first that Individuals leave their tidepools and
then return, residency in its tidepool at high tide has not yet been assessed.
This study examines the pool occupancy and behavior patterns of
anais on a day to day basis over a limited period of time. Over the course of 18
consecutive days lobserved 31 marked fish in 5 tidepools at low tide to determine the
fidelity of Individuals to specific tidepools In a given area. Furthermore, to be able to
atribute the successive appearances of individuals on different low tide to the
existence of a homing behavior, Ireport here on high tide observations made on 11
days within the study period.
