Fig. 1
Fig. 2
Fig. 3
Fig. 3.1
Fig. 3.2
Fig. 4
Fig. 5
Fig. 5.1
Fig. 5.2
Fig. 5.3
Fig. 5.4
Fig. 5.5
Fig. 5.6
FIGURE LEGENDS
A photograph taken by fluorescence microscopy of YS. The intact vesicles
are notably fluorescent and visible.
Section of hypobranchial gland stained with multiple stain. The arrow
points to a cluster of yellow cells. This section was Zum thick.
3um sections stained with either toluidine blue or multiple stain viewed
under oil immersion.
A typical cross section of the hypobranchial gland stained with toluidine
blue. The smaller arrow points to a white vesicle-filled cell. The larger
arrow points to a typical yellow cell. The nucleus of this cell can be clearly
seen in the basal end and the apical end can be seen protruding into the
mantle cavity.
A cross section of the hypobranchial gland stained with multiple stain. The
arrow points to a cell with no apical membrane and what looks like YS
being secreted from it. It is hypothesized that this cell was secreting at the
time of fixation.
A section stained with multiple stain showing a ciliated cell (arrow) at the
opening of a deep cleft in the tissue. There is another ciliary cell located
directly above this one. This location is typical.
Frames from video recorded electrical stimulation experiments. All pictures
were obtained through video analysis software.
Frame showing hypobranchial gland immediately prior to direct electrical
stimulation.
Frame showing the hypobranchial gland 3.0 seconds after direct
stimulation. YS can be seen flowing from the gland (arrows).
Frame showing hypobranchial gland immeadiately prior to stimulation of
right cephalic tentacle. The rectum can be seen in the forefront.
Frame showing the hypobranchial gland after stimulation of the right
cephalic tentacle. No secretion can be detected.
Frame showing hypobranchial gland immediately prior to electrical
stimulation of epipodial tentacle region. The rectum is in the forefront of the
picture.
Frame showing the hypobranchial gland 3.0 seconds after stimulation of
epipodial tentacle region. YS can be seen flowing from the gland and over
the rectum in definite ciliary pathways.
