seemed to be located within the crevices of the folds of the organ. At higher magnification.
it was determined that these yellow structures were cells due to the fact that they were
bounded by a plasma membrane and contained a nucleus in their basal end (Fig. 3.1). The
apical end of the cells always faced the mantle cavity, with some of the cells actually
protruding into the cavity. Only the plasma membrane, nucleus, and secretory vesicles,
seemingly the same ones seen in the YS, were visible in these cells, which ranged in length
from 40-120um.
There were other cell types within this gland. The function and purpose of the
majority of these cells were unable to be determined. One of the undetermined cell types
was packed with white vesicles. Study of these cells was not conducted, and the
possibility remains that these cells also may secrete an active component(s) in YS. The
color of the exudate and the vesicles found in YS suggest that the yellow cells are the major
source of secretion, but a role of the white cells is plausible.
The other cell type examined closely was a ciliated variety. Looking at a freshly
removed hypobranchial gland under water-immersion optics, the cilia, which were found to
always be located on the exterior surface of the gland facing the mantle cavity, were readily
visible due to their motion. Obtaining a picture of these cilia on the "live" organ proved
difficult because of their rapid motion and was not accomplished. However, under high
powered oil-immersion optics it was possible to view the cilia in the tissue sections (Fig.
4).
Electrical stimulation
One of the key questions addressed in this study was whether YS secretion could
be induced by stimulation of another region of the body. Using an electrode and
stimulating various sites around the body of the snail, it was possible to demonstrate that
secretion of yellow stuff could be caused by delivering brief shocks at a frequency of 20Hz
for 1 second. Shocking the hypobranchial gland directly, even with single shocks, led to
secretion (Figs. 5.1 & 5.2). Stimulation of the cephalic tentacles did not cause secretion to
occur, however (Figs. 5.3 & 5.4). A shock in the region of the epipodial tentacles led
directly to the secretion of yellow stuff (Figs. 5.5 & 5.6). This demonstrated that secretion
of yellow stuff was under neuronal control, but the nerve innervating the hypobranchial
gland was not identified.
Since many secretory systems involve Ca“, these stimulation experiments were
also conducted in calcium-free ASW. Not only did secretion not occur, but the snail
virtually stopped moving during the experiments. When this snail was placed back in the
same solution containing 1OmM CaCl,, the snail quickly began to move again and
