stimulation led to the secretion of YS. It was therefore concluded that calcium was required
in some fashion for the exudation of yellow stuff, although the sites of Ca* action were
unable to be determined.
A comparative electrical study was conducted using C. ligatum, a species that does
not display defensive secretions of any kind. Shocks were delivered to the same positions
described above but no secretion was seen.
DISCUSSION
Electrical Stimulation
Since the hypobranchial gland is located in the mantle cavity, physical contact of the
predator with the gland is not a method by which secretion of YS would be stimulated.
This implicates the presence of a neuronal connection between the gland and another body
region that is able to contact the predator. In order to test if such a connection exists,
electrical stimulation of the snail without its shell was employed. Shocks to the epipodial
tentacle region caused secretion where as shocks to the cephalic tentacles do not. This
suggests that not only is the secretion of YS under neuronal control, but the epipodial
tentacle region is involved.
Yellow cells and secretion
Yellow cells were found throughout the hypobranchial gland in the tissue
sections. However, there were certain areas that seemed to have a greater density of cells
than others, specifically within the folds of the gland (Fig. 2).
One of goals of this study is to discern a model for how these yellow cells secrete
their YS. Taking the electrical stimulation of the YS into account as well as the histological
analysis, it is possible to hypothesize as to the type of secretion that is occurring. In
visualizing YS, countless intact vesicles are seen. Conventional, or merocrine, secretion.
where a cell’s secretory vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane, is not very likely since
the contents of the vesicles, and not the vesicles themselves, are released (Alberts et al.,
1994; Maximow, 1930). Therefore, this type of secretion can be fairly decisively negated.
Another type of secretion, apocrine secretion, seems somewhat more plausible
(Maximow, 1930; Andrew, 1959). In this system, the top of the cell is weakened by
proteases from within the cell and eventually ruptures, allowing some of the cellular
contents to be released. Äfter release, such cells reseal and remain alive. In order for this
system to work, the release of proteases must be tightly controlled so as to keep the cell
