Introduction
The channeled top snail, Calliostoma canaliculatum, lives in the kelp forest
ecosystem of Monterey Bay, often found clinging to the fronds of Macrocystis. Like other
snails, C. canaliculatum flees into its shell upon attack, but unlike many other snails and
specifically other snails of this genus also found in Monterey Bay (C. ligatum and C.
annulatum), C. canaliculatum has an additional defense mechanism. Upon sufficien
disturbance, such as that caused by the predatory actions of the sea star Pycnopodia
hellantholdes, C. canaliculatum will secrete a yellow mucous (appropriately termed yelloy
stuff or YS) that causes the starfish to retract both its tube-feet and arm (Bryan et al.
1997). The active compounds in YS causing these reactions have not been chemically
identified.
Roller et al. (1995) studied the hypobranchial gland of Stramonita haemastoma
canaliculata to determine whether the toxin it uses to paralyze oysters comes from this
gland, but concluded that it was coming from the salivary gland. The defensive secretion
of Calliostoma canaliculatum comes from the hypobranchial gland, however (Denny,
1989). Little else is known about this gland, however, except that it is located within the
mantle cavity, adjacent to the gill and rectum. It appears coiled and twisted, with a right
and left side, one always more pronounced than the other. Its function in C. canaliculatum
is thought to be to secrete mucous, which is then used as a substrate to carry waste particles
out of the shell (Hyman, 1967; Fretter et al., 1962).
This study sought to physiologically characterize the hypobranchial gland and
specifically determine the location of the yellow secretory material within the gland and to
provide a preliminary characterization of the process of secretion.
Materials and Methods
Experimental Organisms
Some Calliostoma canaliculatum were collected in Monterey Bay in the Hopkins
Marine Wildlife Refuge. Others were obtained from Sea Life Supply, Sand City, CA. All
were kept in tanks with flow-through sea water at ambient temperature (13-15
Tissue Sectioning and Staining
One Calliostoma canaliculatum was placed in 350mM MgCl, for 5 minutes and then
removed from its shell. The snail was then fixed for 15 minutes at room temperature and
then for 7 hours at 4°C in 0.065M Phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) with 3% gluteraldehyde,
0.5% tannic acid, and 6% sucrose. The snail was then washed for 2 hours in O.065M
phosphate buffer with 6.0% sucrose and then placed overnight in a solution of O.065M
