phosphate buffer with 6.0% sucrose and 1% gluteraldehyde. The sample was dehydrated
using a 15 minute per step graded ethanol series - 50%, 70%, 90%, 95%, and 100% (twe
times) - and infiltration was allowed to occur for 48 hours at room temperature using LR
White medium (London Resin Company). Äfter washing two times with fresh LR White
resin after the 48 hour period, the snail and LR White were placed in a gelatin capsule and
the resin was allowed to polymerize for 24 hours at 60°C. All sectioning was carried out
using glass knives and a Sorvall JB-4 microtome. The sections were cut at Zum thickness.
Sections were placed on silane coated slides (Polyscience) in a drop of water and allowed
to dry for 10 minutes on a slide heater at 50°C. Some slides were then stained with either
multiple stain (Polyscience) or toluidine blue (Polyscience). All slides were mounted using
Permount (Polyscience).
Electrical stimulation
Snails were removed from their shells without MgCl, sedation, and the mantle
sheath was cut and peeled back to expose the hypobranchial gland. A NE-100 concentric
bipolar electrode (Rhodes Medical Instruments) and a Grass Instruments SD9 stimulatoi
were used to stimulate to various regions of the snail, including the hypobranchial gland
and regions around the epipodial tentacles. Each stimulus was a 1 second train of 0.2 ms
shocks delivered at 20Hz. A voltage of 60V proved to be the most effective. Some
experiments were conducted in Ca“-free ASW (475mM NaCl, 5mM NaÖH, 1OmM KCl.
5OmM MgCl,, 1OmM HEPES).
RESULTS
Visualization of YS
Throughout all these experiments, small samples of the secreted yellow stuff were
taken and analyzed under a microscope. From this analysis, two important discoveries
were made. First, yellow stuff was full of intact vesicles, presumably containing the YS
(Fig. 1). Second, the yellow stuff was strongly fluorescent under both rhodamine and
fluorescein filters (Fig. 1). These results thus indicated that in the histological analysis of
the hypobranchial gland, a YS-secreting cell should be identifiable by its vesicles and
fluorescence.
Tissue Sectioning and Staining
Looking at the hypobranchial gland in this snail it was possible to discern very
yellow structures that looked like cells (Fig. 2). As a general trend, these structures
