viable. A normal characteristic of this type of secretion is a long delay between a stimulus
and the actual secretory event due to the tight control required. The first YS was seen being
secreted after 0.86 seconds (Figs. 5.5 & 5.6). Although, surely the system operates faster
than this since this time was calculated from the first moment that YS was seen moving
over the rectum. The bright color of the gland and the exudate did not allow for
differentiation prior to the time the YS had been secreted and transported away from the
hypobranchial gland. The time course necessary for apocrine secretion would seem to be
too long for such a rapid response.
There remains only one other general type of secretion that the snail could be using,
holocrine secretion (Andrew, 1959). In this type of process, cells are lysed and their entire
contents released. Since the entire cell is secreted, control over the amount of protease
action is not as tight as in apocrine secretion. Only the secretory cells with their apical
membranes bulging beyond the edge of the hypobranchial gland would secrete so that
when the cell lyses, the cellular contents empty into the mantle cavity (Fig. 3.1). Figure
3.2 shows a yellow cell with no apical membrane that seems like it is actively secreting at
the time of fixation.
Ciliated cells
Once the YS is secreted, it must move to the aperture of the shell to exert its effect
on the attacker. Cilia are used to accomplish this purpose. They seem to cover most of the
gland, including openings to minuscule crevices and seem be laid out in such a way as to
create channels of flow for the secreted YS over the hypobranchial gland (Fig. 4).
CONCLUSION
This study has been able to discern much about the secretion of YS from the
hypobranchial gland. There remain a few questions to be answered and experiments to be
run, however. Perhaps most importantly, a nuclear dye needs to be used to determine
whether there are nuclei in YS or not. If nuclei are found in significant numbers, this
would provide further evidence supporting the hypothesis that holocrine secretion is
occurring in the release of yellow stuff. SEM and TEM studies would be beneficial, as
well. Finally, since it has been determined that the secretion of YS is under neuronal
control, further histological and electrical stimulation studies should be conducted to
determine if there is a hypobranchial nerve and if so what neurotransmitter/hormone serves
as the trigger for this system.
