diameter. This dilation of the esophagus near the oral disc allows the
primary tentacle to insert the food particle into the mouth. Large food
particles have been observed entering through the mouth into the
esophagus with no apparent aid from any tentacles once the primary
tentacle has inserted at least a tip or an edge of the particle into the
mouth. In some cases, hovever, the primary tentacle and occassionallu
one or more of the other tentacles bends into the mouth and enters into the
esophagus with the piece of food. The distension of the esophagus works
its way down toward the base of the anthocodia until the entire visible
esophagus is dilated. It takes about 13 minutes from the time a piece of
krill makes contact with the tentacle for it to be ingested into the
esophagus and be moved down to the base of the anthocodia. Shortly after
the krill reaches the base of the anthocodia, the esophaqus starts to
constrict at its distal end back to normal size. This begins a slow,
peristaltic motion as the constriction of the esophagus works its wag to
the base of the anthocodia. Starting with the first signs of contraction
near the oral disc it takes between 15 and 35 minutes for the esophagus to
constrict back to its normal size completely down to the base of the
anthocodia. The piece of krill is visible at the base of the anthocodia until
the constricting esophagus squeezes it down deeper into the polyp.
The second tupe of feeding behavior is observed when an Anthomastus
is feeding on nauplii which are on the order of 0.3 millimeters in length.
When one or more nauplii become stuck to a tentacle, that tentacle curls in
to the oral disc and deposits the food porticles on the mouth. The tentacle
slowly curls back to its normal position. The time for the tentacle to curl
into the oral disc is about 1.5 seconds, but it takes about 4 minutes for it
to swing back out to its normal position along the plane of the oral disc.
There is no swelling or bending of the polyp, and there is no visible
