studied in vivo by restraining animals in order to permit recordings of stellar nerve
motor activity and intra-mantle pressure transients (Ötis and Gilly, 1990). This work
revealed the roles played by both the giant and non-giant axon systems in different
types of escape responses, and showed that both types of motor axons have distinct
functions that can either be employed separately or in concert during escape behavior
The giant axon system of squid has been a well-studied subject for over half a
century, and a wealth of knowledge exists concerning its functions. The all-or-nothing
nature of giant axon excitability was initially studied using stellar nerve-mantle
preparations, and the axon’s role in stereotyped escape jetting was inferred from these
studies (Prosser, and Young, 1937; Young, 1938). More recent research done in vive
targets the giant axon system as the controlling factor in escape responses elicited by
a strobe flash (Ötis and Gilly, 1990). These flash-elicited responses involve the single
firing of a giant axon which translates into a stereotyped intra-mantle pressure in terms
of peak amplitude and duration.
Non-giant axons run parallel to giant axons and, in contrast to the giant axons,
must fire repetitively to generate graded mantle contractions (Wilson, 1960). Until
recently, it was believed that these non-giant axons only mediated weak respiratory
contractions and slow, constant swimming (Young, 1938). Current literature suggests
that small non-giant axons also play an important role in more complex, delayed
escape responses that can be elicited by an electrical shock applied to the arms of the
squid (Otis and Gilly, 1990). Such complex, delayed escape responses are
characterized by a longer latency of 2200ms compared to the more stereotyped flash
responses (approx. 50ms) and show highly variable intra-mantle pressure transients
which translate into jets of different strengths (Otis and Gilly, 1990). Thus, there
appears to be an initial period of "decision-making" where an animal may or may not
elicit a jet, presumably determined by an assessment of the stimulus. Additionally, the
strength and number of jets executed is very plastic, and has been attributed to a
