ciosely associated with the anemone. The crab may have ito ventral
surface touching the anemones column, the middle two pairs of legs nearly
wrabbed around the column, and the long, slender, front legs touching the
.
tob of the colurn and tentacles. The other common position is with its
—...--
J0sar surace to the column and facing out. A crab would usually touch
the column with its hind legs, the tentacles of the anemone would hang
down and appear to touch its back. Video footage showed how a crab could
be corpletely hidden away under the draping tentacles of a corallimorph.
A female in captivity was seen poking a tentacle with her leg, and on one
occasion she appeared to repeat a motion of stroking a tentacle.
In the Montetrey Bay Aquarium, it was observed that the white
club-tips of the corallimorph would sometimes stick to the legs of the

crabs. Iwo cabs from different anemones were placed on tentacles of an
anernone. The smallest crab struggled to climb off, but was stuck and had
to be removed. A larger crab managed remove itself. Both crabs reacted
duickly to escape off the sticky tentacles.
A crab collected at 650 meters in association with a hexactinellid
sponge was placed in a tub with a corallimorph. This crab moved to the
side of the rock when placed in the tank. In four minutes it approached the
corallimorph and touched a tentacle twice with its front right claw; the
club-tip stuck to its claw. The crab then walked away from the anemone
and settled under the rock. After 15 minutes it had moved completely
around the rock, and settled under the corallimorph. The crab picked up its
egs and brushed the corallimorph, and the club-tips appeared to stick.
The corallimorph did not appear to move it tentacles to touch the crab.
At 17 minutes the crab was tucked up under the corallimorph with
ak e
eus touchind the column. The entire carapace was brushed by the


ted under. The club-tips would stick but then let go. At 30

mmutes un ciab was stiff tucked under the corallimorph. At 34 minutes.
the crab tugged to pull its leg away from a sticky club-tip. It appeared
