predators when hidden under the anemone. The crabs can be extremly
difficult to see when they are associated with the anemone. Predators of
the crab may not see a crab hidden under an anemone, or may avoid contact
with the stinging nematocysts of the club tipped tentacles. It has also
ata
Mnoted tiat tiie ciaus occasional feed on the food collected by the
corallimorph, and thereby gain a nutritional benefit through this
symbiosis. From this study, the corallimorph has not appeared to gain or
lose in this relationship, further study may indicate otherwise.
Ihe crabs may receive another possible benefit which deserves
fürther study. Small live brine shrimp were seen swimming into the crabs
and sticking. The crabs removed the brine shrimp from their legs and
carapace, and then fed. Two crabs waved their claws in the water to wash
the sticky shrimp off. It would be interesting to determine what made the
shrimp stick to the crab. It could be the canyon wall sediment on the
crabs, mucus from the corallimorph, the nature of the brine shrimp,
something secreted by the crab, or a combination of these.
Observations of the crabs with the corallimorph showed a short.
any, acclimation process. Crabs set on a rock next to an anemone in
captivity were seen touching the anemone within minutes. The crab from
650 meters was seen under a corallimorph within 15 minutes of entering
ne tank. Ihe club tips obviously stuck to this crab, it was seen pulling its
ed away from one of the anemone's sticky club-tipped tentacles. This
howsthat at leasteariy in the relationship,t
e corallimorph will sting

-oub but this does not appear to prevent the crab from establishing a
eationsni.
Studies of hermit crabs suggest that the crabs become coated with
mucus and may thereby not be recognized by the host anemone. The
eurface of Chorilia could be investigated in future studies of these
symbionts, it would be interesting to learn if the legs and/or carapace of
an associated crab has a mucus coat or nematocysts on its surface. A
