Figure legends
Table 1 MEAN CONTRACTILE STRENGTHS AND THRESHOLD VOLTAGES. Each
value is the mean response of a population of cells. The lefthand three
columns represent the degree of shortening in response to a 0.4 ms shock of
20 V, 40 V, or 60 V. (A 25% contraction means the contracted cell is 3/4 the
length of the relaxed cell.) The righthand three columns indicate the
minimum voltage necessary to induce contraction in response to shocks of
4 ms, 5 ms, or 10 ms. The rows are paired together, each pair containing
data taken from the same population of cells. Between members of a pair, a
change was made in the external medium, as indicated by the arrows in the
row labels. For the trials with tetrodotoxin (TTX), the toxin was added to the
medium already in the dish until the concentration reached 200 nM.
Underlined values indicate a statistically significant difference between data
points in paired rows (t-test, p«.05). Only the switch from LCM to HCM
caused a significant change in response pattern. The number of cells in a
population are indicated by n.
Figure 1 VIDEO PRINT OF AN ASYMMETRICAL CONTRACTION The two pictures
are consecutive video frames, representing a timespan of about 30 ms. The
30.4 micron cell is bathed in LCM, and receiving a +60 V, 0.4 ms shock. The
arrow indicates the muscle fiber, and the asterisk indicates the approximate
location of the electrode tip, which cannot be seen because the electrode is
viewed from above.
Figure 2 CONTRACTILE STRENGTH IN CELLS SWITCHED FROM LCM TO HCM
Each graph represents data taken from a single cell. While in LCM, a cell
received a series of increasingly strong 0.4 ms shocks spaced 45 s apart. The
change to HCM was made carefully so that the cell remained in the
microscope's field of view. The cell then received an identical series of
shocks. At every voltage, the cells contracted more strongly in HCM than in
LCM (exept when the percent contraction was 0, indicating that the voltage
was subthreshold in both media).
