twice as large as the current supply, cultivation of abalone is likely to continue to increase
(Sietsema, 1992).
Oysters, scallops and clams have been cultured for many years in the United States,
and Japan has been ocean ranching shellfish, including abalone, even longer. A small
laboratory constructed in 1964 at Morro Bay tested red abalone cultivation based on
Japanese abalone hatchery methods and showed that mass cultivation of abalone was
feasible for California industry (Ebert, 1984). Innovations in abalone culturing and the
increase in demand and price have now made abalone farming profitable. However, this
profit obviously relies on maintaining cost effective production. The most costly aspect of
abalone production is the organism's slow growth rate: abalone take three years to reach
market size.
In addition to being slow, abalone growth also varies among individuals. One
cohort in this study had a nearly 20-fold range in mass, from 0.3 grams to 5.85 grams.
This variable growth rate forces most cultivators to sort their abalone into size classes and
to discard the smallest 5-20%. Finally, the abalone’s high fecundity makes cultivated
breeding possible, but tempts aquaculturists to use a small number of adults to produce
thousands, and even tens of thousands of offspring. Over time, this continual loss of par
of the population and these hatchery breeding techniques may alter the gene pool,
potentially leading to inbreeding. Inbreeding often has devastating effects: homozygote
appearance of deleterious rare alleles, inability to have varied responses to changes in the
environment, loss of biodiversity, and a general loss of robustness. Ironically, the
breeding practices of abalone cultivators could produce abalone with even slower growth
rates than at present.
As abalone cultivation is a fairly new industry in California, little research has been
conducted upon the domestication of this species. However, several studies involving
electrophoretic work have been done in Japan, examining cultivation and even ocean
ranching of some other abalone species and of oysters (Fujino, 19781 & Il; Fujino and
