Conclusion
Aquaculture
The present study indicates that there are significant differences between the genetic
compositions of the Santa Barbara 1992 population and the natural populations, but only
slight differences between the cultured and natural populations. The short history of
abalone aquaculture paired with the long abalone generation time has prevented much
inbreeding and much genetic drift. However, it is always better to begin examining
potential losses in genetic diversity too early rather than too late. During the course of this
study, PMI realized that their present breeding practice: using a separate female broodstock
and spawning gravid males pulled from the production tanks - could not remain
permanent, for eventually the males pulled from the production tanks would be the progeny
from some of PMI's earlier spawns and they could potentially be performing back crosses.
Perhaps PMI could start using some wildstock male abalone in their breeding program, for
using natural abalone along with a large brood stock would minimize inbreeding and
genetic drift. The natural abalone would reintroduce rare alleles and the large brood stock
would help to maintain genetic diversity.
Additionally, evidence from PMI spawn 1 indicates a possible discrepancy between
the number of abalone thought to be contributing to spawns and the number that actually
are. Gaffney et al. (1992) found this phenomenon in oyster hatcheries and noted that this
problem could be alleviated by replacing large group spawns with a greater quantity of
spawns with fewer individuals. Abalone hatcheries could consider this breeding technique.
Finally, as abalone aquaculturists have begun to perfect their hatcheries, the time
might be appropriate for them to work together to begin to select for desired abalone traits
and start to breed various strains. (Keeping in mind that an outbred natural or cultured
population should remain as an antidote for any adverse inbreeding effects that could result
from domestication.) (Newkirk, 1983; Lester, 1983)
