collected in 1979 and in 1992 and upon the growth rates of abalone in the wild. It is
evident that if the abalone collected from San Miguel Island in 1992 had been separated
from the rest of the natural Santa Barbara Channel Island since 1979 (1-2 generations) then
the allele-frequency variance was high (F = O.128) and the effective population size was
very low, having a 95% chance of being between 1.09 and 21.39 individuals. The genetic
drift analysis was as expected for the two northern California populations, with very low
allele-frequency variances (0.019 and 0.014) and subsequently high estimated effective
population sizes that include infinity in their 95% confidence limits. For two of these three
natural populations, the independent comparison of na and nt found no significant
differences, but a significant difference was found for the Fort Ross population. However,
this large x2 value can be explained by the small value for the expected number of alleles
lost (0.164).
Discussion
In the genotype variation analysis, three of the cultured populations had one locus
with a genotype frequency below the 5% probability required to rule out Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium. The 1992 Santa Barbara population had two loci that were not in Hardy-
Weinberg equilibrium. This is the first, but definitely not the last, indication that this Santa
Barbara population is different than the other populations collected directly from the ocean.
Intuitively, a farm would seem to have a smaller population size and less random
mating than in nature. This could cause inbreeding, explaining the few deviations from
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium found in those populations. Simply defined, inbreeding is
measured by a decrease in heterozygosity (Mitton, in press). However, though there was a
slight trend towards lower values for the mean number of alleles per locus in the cultured
populations as compared to the natural populations, the difference was not statistically
significant. Only in the 1992 Santa Barbara population does the low mean number of
alleles approach statistical significance. This loss of rare alleles and potential decrease in
