October of 1980, the Kelp Bass vessel went to San Miguel Island, but "large ground swells
prevented any sampling to be accomplished at San Miguel on two occasions during the
week" (Butler). It appears that the sampling was never performed.
While originally only anecdotal evidence from the abalone divers indicated that
abalone seeding could be successful, the present study provides some new, albeit
circumstantial, evidence that the 1979 seeding did provide abalone for the diving industry
1) According to John Colgate, the president of the California Abalone Divers Association,
the south side of San Miguel Island contains the largest bed of abalone in southern
California (personal communication). Anecdotal evidence among the divers indicates that
part of the prosperity of abalone in this region is due to the 1979 seedings. Additionally,
the divers who collected the abalone analyzed as the 1992 Santa Barbara population in this
study claimed that these samples resulted from enhancement (Westlotorn, personal
communication). 2) A study of red abalone growth rates determined that it took abalone in
southern California an average of 15 years, with considerable variability, to reach the
commercial minimum size of 197 mm (Tegner et al., 1992). The abalone planted in 1979
were around 30 mm (Butler, August 1-8 & 16-22 1979), indicating an age of
approximately one year. As the Santa Barbara population was sampled in 1992, then any
survivors from the seeding would be 14 years old. This is very comparable with the length
of time determined for abalone growth to minimum legal size. 3) It is very likely that the
abalone seed obtained for the 1979 seedings could have been produced from a very small
number of parents. Unfortunately, they were bought from a company that is now defunct,
Monterey Abalone Farms, so the exact hatchery records could not be obtained. However
several of the present abalone hatcheries have indicated that, if necessary, they could (and
have) obtained tens of thousands of abalone seed from as few as two large, fertile
individuals (Oakes, MCMullen, McCormick, personal communication). If the abalone
sampled were the seeded individuals, then a spawn of several females who were
