dehydrogenase. The following enzymes gave positive staining but were not resolved well
enough or consistently enough to be scored: hexokinase, mannose-6-phosphate isomerase,
esterase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, and tetrazolium oxidase. Leucine amino
peptidase was resolved, but it appeared monomorphic and required digestive tissue
samples, so assaying for this enzyme was not continued. Four enzymes -
glucosephosphate isomerase (PGI), phosphoglucomutase (PGM), glutamate-oxaloacetate
transaminase (GOT), and malic dehydrogenase (MDH) - were consistently resolved using
the Tris-citrate pH 5.8 buffer of Schaal and Anderson (1974). Additionally, these four
enzymes were analyzed in Hedgecock's 1979 study.
After centrifuging the samples for approximately five minutes, the solutions were
absorbed into filter paper wicks, blotted, and placed onto the gel. Gels ran 4-6 hours at
160 volts (0.3-0.4 amps. per gel) and were sliced in preparation for staining.
Interpreting Gels
Two loci were observed for PGM and MDH, and the more quickly migrating
isozyme was scored in both cases for it was more active and more polymorphic. These loci
were labeled PGM-2 and MDH-2, in accordance with the analysis and labeling of the 1979
data (Hedgecock). For each locus, the most common allele was labeled 100 and the other
alleles were designated by adding or subtracting the estimated number of millimeters they
varied from the chosen standard. For the PGM-2 locus, the allele chosen as the standard
differed between the 1979 data and the 1992 data, but this difference was accounted for in
the data analysis. To reduce scoring errors, questionable samples were run more than once
and samples from consecutive populations were loaded onto a single gel to ensure that the
allele designations were consistent among the eight populations assayed. Additionally, the
allelic designations were consistent with the 1979 data.
Data Analysis
Genotypes were tallied for each locus. In transferring data to table/graph form, the
original numerical allele designations were replaced with alphabetic ones. The most
