common allele (originally 100) became A, the next common B, and so forth. Swofford
and Selander's BIOSYS-1 program (1981) was used to compute: allele frequency, Hardy
Weinberg equilibrium, mean number of alleles per locus (ni), observed and expected
heterozygosity (Ho and He), and the differences between them (D- Ho-He/Ho).
Another program (untitled, developed for Hedgecock et al., 1992) was used to analyze
genetic drift variables: temporal variance of allelic frequencies (F), estimated per¬
generation effective population size (Ng), an independent measurement of the numbers of
alleles expected to remain in each population (no, and a chi-square test of how ni compares
with the actual number of alleles (na). The genetic drift analysis includes an additional
variable, Np, the harmonic mean of the number of abalone spawned per hatchery-produced
generation. As the determination of Np depended not only on estimating how many
generations the abalone were removed from the wild, but also depended upon a compilation
of old, inadequate hatchery and sales records of several different companies, a range was
calculated using the lowest and then the highest possible variables.
Results
Genetic Variation Analysis
Table 3 shows the allele frequencies at each locus for all studied populations. Note
that all 60 samples collected in the 1992 Santa Barbara population were heterozygous at the
PGI locus. Goodness-of-fit to Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was tested at each loci for
every population, using Levene’s correction for small sample size. For loci with several
alleles, a chi-square test was performed with all but the most common alleles pooled
together. Table 3 indicates that three culture populations contained one locus that was not
in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at the p « 0.05 level. The Santa Barbara 1992 population
had two such loci and the natural populations had none.
To examine possibilities of inbreeding in the populations sampled, the average
number of alleles per locus (ni) and the D-values for observed and expected heterozygosity
