mean alleles per locus in the cultured and introduced populations as compared to wild
populations could indicate a population bottleneck.
In an initially perplexing conflict, this potential loss of alleles has not yet led to any
decrease in heterozygosity. The cultured populations exhibited expected and observed
levels of heterozygosity that do not differ from the natural populations and do not have any
significant difference between them. However, the 1992 Santa Barbara population actually
exhibited much more heterozygosity than predicted by Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. This
phenomenon - loss of alleles yet increase in heterozygosity - has been documented in
other cultured marine invertebrates, including hard clams, Mercenaria mercenaria (Dillon
and Manzi, 1987) and oysters, Crassostrea virginica (Vrijenhoek et al., 1990).
The increases in heterozygosity in the 1992 Santa Barbara population could have
resulted from a founder effect leading io genetic drift or from selection. While it is
theoretically possible that there could be strong selection pressures in the San Miguel area
for heterozygosity at the PGI locus, it seems very unlikely that a change this dramatic could
occur in only 1-2 generations by this means alone. (The present analysis of genetic drift
assumes that selection has not occurred.) The abalone that produced this population in
Santa Barbara (whether the spawn occurred in nature or in a hatchery) could have, by
chance, contained individuals with a higher concentration of the second-most common
allele. While losing overall allelic richness, the allele evenness could increase. For
example, the population from Santa Barbara in 1979 had allele frequencies for PGl of
A:O.890, B:0.073, and C:0.037 while in 1992 the Santa Barbara population in question
had PGI allele frequencies of A:0.500 and B:0.500. Though one allele was lost,
heterozygosity was greatly increased as was allelic evenness. As the departure from
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium is signisicant, this situation is most likely with an extremely
small number of parents. This founder effect can then be analyzed as genetic drift.
A more accurate look at the changes in genetic diversity that could happen over time
with aquaculture and/or enhancement programs is found by quantifying genetic drift. As
