homozygous for A at the PGI allele and one male who was homozygous for B at the PGI
allele could have produced offspring with allele frequencies like what was observed.
In conclusion, there are several possible explanations for the unusual genetic
variation found in the 1992 Santa Barbara population of abalone, including selection and
genetic drift. Genetic drift could have occurred naturally at that site, or could be the result
of a hatchery spawning only a very small number of individuals. Although an
electrophoretic study of the Australian blacklip abalone, Haliotis rubra, found regional gene
pools for these populations (Brown, 1991), no study has ever found any genetic variation
by distance between different red abalone populations. The present study shows very little
difference between samples collected in southern California in 1979 and in norther
California in 1992 and between these natural populations and several cultivated
populations. The most plausible explanation for the allele frequencies found in the 1992
Santa Barbara population is that these abalone were the result of the 1979 seeding. This
study indicates that abalone enhancement could be successful in California, possibly
helping to reverse the present decline in natural stocks. Further research could quantify the
effectiveness of seeding. In the course of this present work, several rare alleles were found
in individuals from the PMI broodstock that could be helpful to future studies. These
animals could be spawned and their offspring would then contain allozyme markers that
would indicate whether they were outplanted individuals with a greater than 90% assurance
(Hereford et al., 1992).
This study raises a final point. Although it is definitely possible to produce tens of
thousands of seed from only a handful of the highly fecund adult abalone and although it
appears to be possible for these hatchery-bred individuals to grow to commercial harvesting
size in the wild, the researcher must consider the ecological effects of enhancement. Before
any hatchery-bred abalone were outplanted, Dennis Hedgecock's study was conducted in
the late 1970's to ensure that there was no distinct genetic composition that varied from one
population to another. However, while great care was taken to ensure that no existing
