Nagaya, 19771 & II; Fujino and Sasaki, 1984; Wada, 1986; Saito, 1984). Additionally
cultivation of other shellfish in the United States is used as a parallel to the more recent
cultivation of abalone. Electrophoretic studies found genetic diversity within and/or
between populations of the Coot Clam (Gaffney et al., 1990) and domesticated American
oysters (Hedgecock and Okazaki, 1984; Vrijenhoek et al., 1990). In addition to simply
comparing genetic diversity, several oyster studies pointed to the importance of measuring
the temporal variance of allelic-frequency in order to estimate the effective size of the
populations. These values provide a means to analyze genetic drift and can aid in
determining the extent and nature of genetic change in reproductively isolated populations.
Two studies of oysters and other marine shellfish estimated very low effective population
sizes for these cultivated populations even when the traditional methods showed little or no
significant inbreeding (Hedgecock and Sly, 1990; Hedgecock et al., 1992). A third study
indicated an additional value of estimating the effective population size. Work by Gaffney
et al. (1992) found that fewer oyster individuals than previously thought were actually
contributing to the offspring produced in large group hatchery spawns.
These studies show the importance of examining the population genetics of cultured
California abalone by comparing genetic variation and by measuring genetic drift. This
report analyzes nine populations of abalone: three separate spawns from a hatchery,
samples from the male and female culture broodstock, natural abalone from two areas of
the northern California coast, and samples of abalone collected in 1992 and in 1979 by
commercial divers near Santa Barbara, California. The goals for the present study are to:
determine the genetic composition of cultured and natural populations of the red abalone,
Haliotis rufescens, and estimate the extent of inbreeding and genetic drift within these
populations.
Additionally, anecdotal evidence indicates that the 1992 Santa Barbara population
analyzed in this study was the result of abalone seeding projects of the late 1970's and
early 1980's (Westlotorn, personal communication). In addition to aquaculture, another
