very difficult to accurately determine how many generations separated the cultured abalone
from the wild, the genetic drift analysis was carried out with two best estimates per
population. The five culture populations from PMI did not come directly from natural
populations, but were produced from broodstock, or are actually seedstock, that were
purchased from several California abalone hatcheries. These other aquaculturists originally
obtained their abalone primarily from souther California waters around Santa Barbara or
the Channel Islands (McMullen, Oakes, and McCormick, personal communication), so it
seems fairly safe to assume that the 1979 Santa Barbara population represents the source
for the cultured abalone. The two northern California populations were analyzed as
controls, to see if the 1979 Santa Barbara population could be assumed to have a genetic
composition similar to a natural population from any location in California.
The three populations spawned ut PMI show a trend toward having lower allele-
frequency variance (F) with each subsequent sample: F = 0.130, 0.087, 0.027 for
populations 1, 2 and 3, respectively. The population of 2.5 year old male abalone at PMI
had a high allele-frequency variance (F = 0.136) and subsequently low effective population
size estimates. The female PMI broodstock abalone had a low allele-frequency variance (F
= 0.027) and subsequently had fairly high population size estimates, though the 95%
confidence limits contained a wide range that extended to infinity. For all five of these
populations, the independent comparison of na and ni found no significant differences
between the observed and expected values, using a x2 test with one degree of freedom.
For four of the five culture populations, the estimated effective population sizes are
well within the expected range of Np, the average number of abalone used to spawn each
hatchery-produced generation. However, the analysis of PMI spawn 1 does show a
discrepancy between these two values. Nk is between 2.13 and 28.42 while Nb is
between 61 and 66.
For the three natural populations collected in 1992, the number of generations
removed from the Santa Barbara 1979 population is based upon the size of the abalone
