Introduction
California abalones have been harvested by humans for hundreds of years, but
large-scale commercial harvesting did not begin until 1916 (Tegner et al., 1992). Red
abalone, Haliotis rufescens, is preferred among the several native Californian abalone
species due to its larger size and distinct flavor. However, the natural history of the
abalone - a slow-growing, long-lived, fairly sessile creature - seems to facilitate
overfishing (Tegner, 1989). Between 1931 and 1968, state-wide landings averaged over
900 metric tons wet weight per year. Since 1968, commercial catches have declined to
15% of that: current landings are less thun 136 metric tons per year (Tegner et al., 1992).
(See Figure 1) This decline has occurred despite intensive effort by the California
Department of Fish and Game to restore the fishery.
Presently, commercial red abalone harvesting is centered in south-central California
- most specifically near the Channel Islands off the coast of Santa Barbara. Loss of some
formerly productive areas due to overfishing of natural stocks, expansion of the sea otter
range, environmental degradation of some mainland sites, and competition from
recreational divers have pushed the commercial divers to travel to the furthest Channel
Islands (Tegner, 1989). According to John Colgate, the President of the Abalone Divers
Association, San Miguel Island (see map Figure 2) is presently believed to have the largest
bed of abalone in southern California (personal communication). Northern California,
which has an even larger supply of abalone, is closed to commercial harvesting.
As the supply of abalone diminishes, their per unit value continues to increase.
Between 1973 and 1988, the price paid to divers has increased 800%, over twice the rate of
inflation (Tegner et al., 1992). Abalone uquaculture is a logical response to the diminishing
natural supply and continuing high demand that Californian, Japanese, and other seafood
connoisseurs have placed upon this gastropod. Because the present market for abalone is
