D = (Ho-He)Hel were compared. As can be seen in Table 4, the cultured populations
tended to have lower nj values than the natural populations, though the differences are not
statistically significant using the t-test. Notice that ni for the 1992 Santa Barbara
population, though not statistically significant, is much lower than the value for any of the
cultured populations. Unlike all of the other populations, it was completely monomorphic
at the MDH locus. Again, in comparing observed and expected heterozygosities and their
differences (Ho, He, and D), there were no statistically significant differences or possible
trends noticed between the cultured and natural populations. However, the 1992 Santa
Barbara Population had the highest observed heterozygosity and the next to lowest
expected heterozygosity, resulting in a large difference (D-.652). This difference is due
mostly to the PGI locus, but also to the PGM locus (Figure 3).
Genetic Drift Analysis
In addition to measuring the previous variables that have traditionally been used to
describe and compare population genetic structure, this study used a tool to analyze genetic
drift more specifically. This genetic drift test uses the allele frequencies of the derived and
progenitor populations to determine the allele frequency variance (F) and to estimate the
effective size of each derived population based upon how many generations it has been
separated from the progenitor (wild) population. In an independent test, Fis used to
estimate how many alleles are expected to remain in the population (nt). This expected
value is then compared with the actual number of alleles remaining (na) in a chi-square test.
If the observed value, na, is determined to be not significantly different from the expected
value, nt, then more validity is given to F and thus to the accuracy of the original estimated
population size. However, the chi-square test is not very accurate if either the expected
number of alleles remaining or lost is very small (£ 0.2).
Table 5 summarizes the information found for each population in the genetic drift
analysis. The 1979 Santa Barbara abalone population was used as the originating
population to compare with all of the populations collected and analyzed in 1992. As it was
