p. 5
Mita, R
the sheet held in place on the substrate, whatever sessile space occupant, sand,
or free space was directly underneath each point was observed, as well as whether
or not the point was in a crevice or on a rock face. The observations were tal-
lied and percent cover estimates obtained forthwith. The slope of the surface
was estimated to the nearest ten degrees; the orientation of the surface was
taken as the horizontal projection of the line normal to the surface.
To enable sampling at high tide, a length of one-half inch nylon rope was
bolted to the substrate in strategic locations.
Observations of snail activity and distribution were made continually over
a period of four and one-half days. The quadrats were visited on th e low tides,
the high tides, the mid-tides falling, and the mid-tides rising, except when
wave action, accidental sleep, or, on one occasion, a class meeting prevented
sampling. If snails were present in a quadrat, information regarding their dis-
tribution and activity within the quadrat was recorded. Snails were marked as
feeding if they were positioned such that the front portion of the foot was
placed on a prey item with the rear portion of the foot on the substrate and the
snail was stationary. Otherwise, snails were marked as "moving" if the tentacles
were extended with the shell raised off of the substrate, or marked as "sitting'
if the tentacles were withdrawn with either the shell held close to the substrate
or with the foot withdrawn into the shell. Additionally, the microhabitat in
which this activity occurred was recorded--that is, whether the snail was exposed,
as on the "face" of a rock or snuggled among algal thalii, the anemone Anthopleura
elegantissima (Brandt, 1835), sand, or within a crevice.
To obtain a rough estimate of rock face residency and turnover, 88 indi-
viduals on a barnacle-encrusted face were marked with a spot of white fingernail
polish, and observed at two successive low tides.
A quick survey was conducted along 100 m of coastline to ascertain field
prey preferences. All snails found feeding and the objects of their endeavors
were tallied
