p. 11
Mita, R.T.
not as obligate foragers at each high tide, but rather as intermittent hunters
among their invertebrate prey. In lieu of en masse bicircadial migrations between
refuge and prey or between low and high intertidal with every ebb and flow of the
tide, the population distribution is maintained in a sort of dynamic equilibrium
in which the flux of organisms is in reality quite small. Individuals apparently
are not compelled to forage with every incoming tide. Indications from obser¬
vations of marked individuals are that a given snail may spend on the order of
about 3/4 of a day exposed on rocky surfaces in the pursuit and ingestion of prey.
The typical snail will subsequently retreat to an appropriate refuge where it
may remain inactive for approximately a day and a half. At any given time fully
two-thirds of the population can thus be found tucked away in refuges, caught up
in an activity that for most practical puposes resembles sleep. Other than to
make minor shifts in position or orientation, snails in this attitude sustain
no translocative or feeding behaviour. In contrast, only 127 of all snails are
actually feeding, on the average. Interesting avenues of insight into the
physiological ecology of the species may be opened by an investigation into the
length of the stay as it relates to the microclimatological features of the refuge,
calories of prey consumed, the energetic cost of foraging excursions, and the
basal metabolism, to name a few.
One may speculate of the selective advantage this strategy might have.
By having a relatively long cryptic phase and sporadic, asynchronous feeding
patterns, individuals may minimize exposure to those biotic and abiotic factors
which tend to reduce reproductive success (e.g., predation, debilitating wave
action, dessication, etc.). At the population level, this becomes a means of
hedging one's bets: in the event of a wide-latitude, density-independent catas¬
trophe (displacement from substrate by waves or as when harbor seals (Phoca
vitulina) choose barnacle- and snail-covered rocks upon which to sleep), only
33% of the population will be susceptible. The remaining 677, being in refuges,
letely obli
sth
ven com
e
will less lik
