P. 7
Mita,
refuges, 14% were sitting on rock faces, 77 were moving on rock faces, and 2.57
were feeding and moving in refuges.
In order to discern possible effects of tide on density and distribution,
only high and low tide observations were examined; mid-tide observations were
excluded (figures 3 and 4). The average overall density seemed to be somewhat
higher at low tide (4.99 m"2) than at high tide (3.85 m"2), a difference which
was significant at the et-O.1057 level. Curiously enough, snail densities in¬
creased in the lowest two zones at low tide,, but remained unchanged in zone 3.
However, it was in the lowest zone that the proportion of the snail population
did not fluctuate between tides; in zone 2, there tended to be a greater fraction
of the population at low tide, whereas thne opposite was true for zone 3.
As for snail activity, higher percentages of the population were (1) sit-
ting still at low tide, (2) moving at high tide, and (3) feeding at high tide.
This difference was particularly marked in zone 3 (1.2 m to 1.4 m), where on rock
faces at high tide feeding and moving occurred, but not sitting still--which at
this time was seen only in refuges--whereas sitting still on faces and in refuges
was the only activity observed at low tide.
Acanthina did not seem overly slective in their choice of habitat. Snails
were found for the most part among different types of surface cover, slope, and
orientation in proportion to the abundance of these surface types. There was,
however, a tendency for the snails to be situated in areas of somewhat higher
refuge-to-face ratios, particularly in the lower zones. Whereas factors such
as orientation, slope, and surface cover apparently had little effect on population
distribution, refuge availability and vertical height may have had limited
effects (figures 5,6,7).
It was found that of 88 individuals on a rock face at one low tide, 32
snails or. 36.36% remained at the next low tide, giving a turnover rate of 63.647
from one low tide to the next. If one-third of the population was on rock faces
