P. 12
Mit
had happened.
Evidently, the snails are efficient enough at procuring prey and their metabolism
is such that constant feeding is not a necessity. Further, prey must occur in
sufficient numbers to enable this lifestyle; otherwise, a large proportion of
time would be spent simply seeking prey. However, it is not altogether clear
what the quantitative relationshipa of this predator-prey interaction might be
over a long period of time. A priori, it would be difficult to tell whether or
not the Acanthina population at Hopkins Marine Station is of sufficient size to
"control" the prey populations of, for example, the barnacles. Certainly the
densities of Acanthina are far lower at Hopkins than those of Thais in either
the Olympic Penninsula Region (Connell, 1970, and Dayton, 1971) or in Millport
(Connell, 1961). However, the barnacles themselves seem to be far less abundant
at Hopkins, depending on the season (initial settlement seems far less, but the
suvivorship seems higher); the moderately protected intertidal community in this
area is one of incredible complexity and does not appear at this level of inves¬
tigation to be dominated by any particular organism.
This study is by no means comprehensive; on the contrary, it represents
almost an initial look into an Acanthina population on Monterey Bay, and as such,
was purely observational in nature. The sampling program was developed as the
result of several attempt to improve upon the haphazardly placed quadrats and
almost exclusively low tide observations of previous research. In having to cope
with a surface of considerable rugosity and highly heterogeneous biota, one
cannot help but envy thosewho worked with the flat surface of Cantilever Pier,
or empathize with early intertidal ecologists who demonstrated a particular
reluctance to sample at high tide. Much in the way of experimental and long
term examination is required to clear the issues of why these patterns were
observed, do they vary with time, and ultimately, how does Acanthina punctulata
fit into the structure and function of the intertidal ecosystem?
