fully understood. A long-standing model is the capacitative, or store-operated entry model, first
proposed by Putney (1986, 1990). Under this model, Ca* influx occurs subsequent to the
emptying of agonist-sensitive internal calcium stores. A more recent model suggests an
important role for a non-capacitative pathway regulated by arachidonic acid, which is activated at
lower agonist concentrations (Shuttleworth and Thompson 1999).
An important regulatory role for cyclic nucleotides has been suggested in both the influx of
calcium from the extracellular environment and in pathways of release from the internal stores.
In the present experiment, I used HEK-293 cells as a study system in an attempt to better
characterize the roles of cyclic nucleotides in the regulation of intercellular calcium levels, and in
particular to further investigate the role of cAMP in regulation of calcium flow through TRPM.
Materials and Methods:
Materials: 2'-O-dibutryryl-cyclic AMP, 8-bromo-cyclic GMP, ionomycin, gadolinium G, MnQ,
and thapsigargin were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. Ryanodine, 2-APB and staurosporine
were purchased from CalBioChem.
Tissue Culture: This experiment utilized human embryonic kidney (HEK-293) cells from the
AlO cell line, which were stably transfected with a tetracycline-inducible murine TRPM/
construct to over-express the TRPM ion channel. All cells were grown in 50mL tissue culture
flasks in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and
0.1% penicillin/streptomycin, 0.01% blastocidin, and 0.01% zeocin, and kept in a 37°C incubator
with 5% C. Flasks were passaged every 2-3 days, or when cells were nearly confluent.
For the purpose of imaging, cells were plated on glass chips that had been treated with
high molecular weight poly-lysine to increase adhesion and washed with ultrapure HO prior to
plating. Plated cells were kept in DMEM in mini Petri dishes in the 37°C incubator until cells
were nearly confluent. The usual time between plating and imaging was 48-72 hours, but this
varied as growth rates changed over the course of the experiment. TRPM expression was
induced with tetracycline 24-48 hours prior to an imaging experiment. Cells expressing the
TRPM construct could be distinguished from controls by their rounded morphologies.
Fluorescent Imaging: Cells were loaded with the fluorescent Ca indicator Fluo-3/AM,
5uL/mL, (Molecular Probes) for 40 minutes and washed 3x with a 2 mM Ca saline solution 20
