TRPM (Ta 2004), did not affect the results observed with thapsigargin and the subsequent
addition of CAMP.
Discussion:
This experiment addressed two distinct phenomena concerning the regulation of intracellular
calcium levels: (1) the effect of TRPM expression on intracellular calcium concentrations and
the potentiation of the channel by cAMP, and (2) previously uncharacterized [Ca oscillations
induced by the addition of exogenous cAMP. TRPM expression substantially increased the
degree to which [Cali responded to changes in extracellular concentration, suggesting that
RPM does indeed serve as a major pathway of calcium influx under physiologically relevant
conditions. Furthermore, I observed that the steady [Cat i change in response to increasing
(although not decreasing) external calcium was potentiated by the presence of cAMP, lending
support to the suggestion of Takezawa et al (2003) that TRPM activity is up-regulated by
increased concentrations of cAMP.
While the presence of cAMP affected the activity of TRPM, the degree of TRPM
expression had no effect on the cAMP-induced oscillatory response, suggesting that oscillations
are inherent to the HEK cells themselves, and that influx pathways do not play a significant role.
Others (Luo et al 2000, St. Bird and Putney 2004) have reported similar Ca oscillations in
HEK-293 cells, but these have all been dependent on the continued presence of external calcium.
Thus the phenomenon I observed, in which oscillations continued throughout the course of a
four minute imaging trial in OmM Ca EGTA-buffered saline, can be considered novel.
Furthermore, the oscillations persisted at a continuous frequency for over an hour, suggesting
they might continue indefinitely and that the cells had been switched to a different "steady state".
The mechanism underlying these oscillations is of particular interest because it represents a
coupling between the two most common second messengers in the cell: cAMP and Ca (Cooper
and Hausman 2004). Various pharmacological probes were used in an attempt to elucidate this
mechanism. The response was not attenuated when experiments were conducted in the presence
of 1OuM ryanodine, indicating that the ryanodine receptor, a major pathway of calcium release,
does not play a significant or necessary role. In fact, analysis showed that the frequency of
oscillations actually increased in the presence of ryanodine. However, in the presence of 2-APB,
a membrane-permeant inhibitor of the IP, receptor, the addition of cAMP caused no [Ca i peak
or oscillations. This result implicates the IP,R as a key player in the oscillatory response.
