Abstract:
Calcium and cyclic AMP are the two most common cellular "second messengers" (McHenry
1993). The mechanisms by which their levels are regulated in the cell are complex and the proper
functioning of such regulatory systems is essential for life. I investigated the effects of cAMP on
intracellular calcium concentrations using HEK-293 cells as a study system. Changes in internal
Ca concentration were monitored using the fluorescent indicators fluo-3 and fura-2 and both
conventional and confocal microscopy. First, cAMP was found to potentiate calcium influx
through TRPM7 in cells induced to express the channel. Second, a novel cAMP-induced
oscillatory response was observed in both M-expressing and control cells. Treatment with cyclic
GMP did not elicit the oscillatory response. The oscillations persisted in the absence of
extracellular Ca* and were blocked by pretreatment with luM thapsigargin, indicating they are
solely dependent on the release and reuptake of calcium from internal stores. Oscillations
continued in the presence of 1OuM ryanodine but were blocked by 10OuM 2-APB, suggesting a
central role for the IP3 receptor and not the ryanodine receptor. Treatment with the broad
spectrum kinase inhibitor staurosporine yielded mixed results. Oscillations persisted in some
cells but were more prolonged and less frequent. This suggests that the underlying mechanism
may involve phosphorylation, but the targets and identity of the phosphorylating enzyme remain
unclear.
Introduction:
Life has in many ways evolved around calcium. The Cat ion is highly energetic ion and
common in the natural environment; in fact, it is the fifth most common element in the earth’s
crust and most prevalent mineral in the human body (McHenry 1993). In response to the
ubiquity and biological activity of calcium, cells have developed a complex system of regulating
their intracellular calcium concentrations, [Ca, in response to changes in the internal and
external environments. The precise functioning of this regulatory system is critical for life; overly
high calcium levels are cytotoxic and can trigger apoptotic cell death. Nor could life continue in
the absence of calcium; the element plays a critical role in fertilization, muscle contraction and the
transmission of nerve impulses, and is a key second messenger in a wide variety of signaling
pathways in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells.
One critical way in which intercellular calcium concentrations are controlled is through the
regulation of plasma membrane influx and efflux channels. Human embryonic kidney cells
