While the most significant regulator of IP,-induced calcium release is calcium itself
(Nagakawa et al 1991), there is also a substantial body of evidence which indicates that cyclic
nucleotides also regulate the receptor's activity. There are two primary splice variants of the IP
receptor, the S2+, or neuronal, variant and the S2- non-neuronal type, which lacks 40 amino acid
residues between its two phosphorylation sites (Nagakawa et al 1991). Previous work has shown
that in cells expressing the S2+ variant, Ca release was enhanced when either PKA or PKG
was activated, but that only PKA had an effect in cells expressing the S2- variant (Wagner et al
2003).
The most plausible mechanism based on these results, especially given the lack of response to
cGMP, would be the activation of IP,R via phosphorylation by a protein kinase, possibly protein
kinase A (PKA), also known as cAMP-dependent kinase. Phosphorylation would increase the
open probability of the receptor, enhancing the positive feedback effect due to increased Cat
concentrations. Under this model, the oscillations would continue as long as the receptor
remained phosphorylated and the SERCA pumps continued to replenish the internal stores. This
hypothesis is also consistent with previous work in HEK-293 cells showing a qualitatively
different oscillatory response to be phosphorylation dependent. In cells expressing the Cat
sensing receptor CaR, [Ca i oscillations were shown to be dependent on a negative feedback
mechanism in which protein kinase C(PKQ phosphorylates CaR at an inhibitory threonine site
(Young et al 2002).
However, the results observed when experiments were carried out in the presence of various
concentrations of stauros porine somewhat complicate the picture. Staurosporine, derived from
the bacterium Streptomoes spp., inhibits a broad spectrum of protein kinases and in particular is a
very strong inhibitor of PKA, with an IG, of 7nM (CalBioChem). It was expected that
staurosporine would completely block the oscillatory response, yet mixed results were observed
in the presence of both 2uM and lOuM staurosporine. Oscillations were attenuated in only some
trials, while in the majority of trials, a [Ca peak and oscillations persisted in varying fractions
of the cells. However, the oscillations were significantly less frequent and more prolonged
(indicated by shallower and broader fluorescent peaks).
The differences in peak frequency and characteristic shape suggest that the oscillations
observed in the presence of staurosporine may have been due to a different and possibly
unrelated phenomenon, and that the original cAMP-induced oscillatory phenomenon, with its
characteristic sharp, narrow peaks and 1 per minute oscillation frequency was in fact attenuated
