(HEK-293), which served as the study system for these experiments, have been shown to have
four types of calcium influx channels: highly selective LoAc channels, Imp Imx and nonselective
INs channels (Bujag et al 2005). In addition, some of the cells used in this experiment were
induced to express a murine version of the ion channel TRPM, a novel member of the growing
family of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. Also known as LTRPG, TRPM is
bifunctional, consisting of both ion channel and kinase domains (Runnels et al 2001). It is
ubiquitously expressed in all vertebrate cell types studied to date and seems to be essential for life
cellular death occurs when the DT4O LTRPC gene is removed (Nadler et al 2001).
The role of TRPM is still a matter of debate in the scientific community. Hermosura et al.
(2001) postulated that M is, like the ATP-activated K' channel, an ATP-depletion activated
cation channel (ADAC that plays a key role in maintaining Ca and Mg homeostasis in
response to the cell’s energy state. Previous work has also suggested links between regulation of
the second messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), an indicator of energy state, and
regulation of calcium levels (Hermosura, personal communication). Several isoforms of the
enzyme adenylyl cyclase, which synthesizes cAMP from adenosine triphosphate (ATP), are
known to be either positively or negatively regulated by Ca“. A spatial association between
membrane-bound adenylyl cyclases and specific ion channels that serve as Ca entry pathways
has also been documented (Mons et al 1998). More recently, the work of Takezawa et al. (2003)
suggested that cAMP up-regulates TRPM activity, while G-proteins have inhibitory effects on
the channel through their regulation of adenylate cyclase activity.
In addition to controlling the entry and exit of calcium from the cell, cells also regulate the
release to the cytosol of calcium stored internally in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) or, in muscle
cells, the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). The two major pathways of intracellular calcium release
are controlled by the inositol 1,4,5 triphosphate receptor (IP,R) and the ryanodine receptor
(RyR). Ca release via the IP,R is regulated by a positive feedback loop in which increased
[Ca increases the open probability of the channel (Wang and Thompson 1995). It has also
been suggested that the affinity of the IP,R for its substrate, and thus the rate of release from
internal stores, is enhanced by the presence of cAMP (Chatton et al 1998). Calcium reuptake into
the internal stores is controlled by the sarcoplasmic-endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase
pumps (SERCA pumps).
Calcium signaling pathways and the relationship between plasma membrane channel and the
internal stores have been a focus of study for many years, but these complex pathways are not yet
