by protein kinase inhibition. The presence of the low-frequency, broad oscillations in
staurosporine trials in which no cAMP was added lends credence to this theory. An alternative
explanation is that the presence of staurosporine somehow altered or tempered the oscillatory
response without completely blocking it. Regardless, such a significant change in the response
suggests some role for protein kinases in the underlying mechanism.
It is clear that much remains to be learned about this unique oscillatory response. In future
work, it would be informative to better characterize the response to staurosporine and see
whether other broad spectrum kinase inhibitors elicit similar oscillations. Testing the effects of
more specific kinase inhibitors, especially those, such as PKI-a, which are highly specific for
protein kinase A, could further explain the underlying mechanism. Investigation into the
underlying kinetics of the oscillations would also be relevant and highly interesting.
Conclusions:
Expression of the ion channel TRPM greatly increases the response of Ca to changes in
external calcium. The presence of 100uM exogenous cyclic AMP potentiates the response of the
ion channel to increasing external Ca* concentrations. In both control cells and those
expressing TRPM, cAMP causes a rapid rise in [Ca followed by oscillations that persist for
up to an hour, an effect not shared by cyclic GMP. The oscillations are dependent on the release
and reuptake of calcium from internal stores and do not depend on the continued presence of
extracellular calcium. The IP, receptor plays a central role in the response, but the ryanodine
receptor is not involved. A plausible mechanism involves phosphorylation of the IP,R by cAMP
dependent kinase, or protein kinase A.
Acknowledgements:
This project could not have been possible without the assistance of many people. Most
importantly, I would like to thank Stuart Thompson for his knowledge, patience, and enthusiasm,
and his assistance with all aspects of the project. Many thanks also to my lab mates, Jennifer
Cribbs, Allison Waters and Christian Reilly, for their never-ending help, camaraderie and good
coffee. Thanks to Amro Hamdoun for his assistance with fura-2 experiments, to the entire Epel
lab for microscope use and contribution of reagents, to Jim Watanabe for statistical advice, and
especially to Chris Patton for assistance with all things technological. As always, love and many
thanks to my parents for supporting me in all I do.
