oscillation was quantified by sub-sampling three regions of interest from each trial in which
CAMP was added and counting the number of oscillations per cell in the field of view.
Oscillation frequency under varying conditions was compared with a nested ANOVA and
Student Newman-Keuls post hoc tests (Appendix A). Oscillation frequencies are plotted in Fig.
The cAMP-induced [Ca i peak and subsequent oscillations persisted in the presence of
1OuM ryanodine (RyR inhibitor); indeed, the frequency of oscillation was significantly higher
(SNK). Oscillations also continued in the majority of cells in the presence of 2uM and 1OuM
concentrations of the broad spectrum protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine, but were
significantly less frequent (SNK). The peaks observed in staurosporine-treated cells also had a
different characteristic shape, generally broader and of lesser magnitude (Fig 6a). The ratio of
peak height to width at half height was used as a metric for peak shape. The mean height: width
ratio +SD of twenty randomly selected peaks was 4.92 + 1.63 in the presence of cAMP alone
and 1.98 + 0.78 with staurosporine (two-tailed t-test P.001, Fig 6b). In some trials with
staurosporine, these prolonged oscillations were observed without cAMP addition.
2-aminoethyoxydiphenyl borane (2-APB) inhibits Ca release via the IP, receptor. It does
not affect the release of stored Ca modulated by the ryanodine receptor. Cells pretreated with
100uM 2-APB did not show a peak upon perfusion with a solution of 2mM Ca plus 10OuM
cAMP, regardless of whether additional 2-APB was present in the perfusion solution.
Furthermore, addition of 1O0uM 2-APB to cells oscillating in the presence of 2mM Ca and
100uM cAMP stopped the oscillations. In addition to blocking the oscillatory response, 2-APB
also caused a very gradual rise in [Cai, which could be observed both in dye fade controls and
in trials where cAMP was added.
The Role of Internal Stores: The diterpene thapsigargin specifically blocks SERCA Cat
pumping, which results in the release of calcium from internal stores. The addition of luM
thapsigargin to cells incubated in a 2mM Ca solution caused a gradual increase in free Cat and
subsequent, yet more gradual, decrease. Within 15 minutes, Cai had stabilized below the
initial level. Pretreatment with luM thapsigargin eliminated cAMP-induced [Ca i oscillations in
both control cells and those induced to express the TRPM construct (Fig 5), indicating that the
observed oscillations are dependent on internal Ca stores. Incubation in gadolinium (Gd**),
which creates a fast block to all Ca influx pathways present in the AlO cell line, including
