minutes prior to imaging. Images were recorded at 4-second intervals as cell-laden glass cover
slips were perfused with various solutions via a vacuum injection pump apparatus. Each imaging
trial lasted four minutes. All Fluo-3/AM imaging was done on an Olympus Fluoview 300 laser
scanning microscope using a UPLFL 20X objective. Fluoview Physiology FV30O (Olympus
Optical) software was used in data acquisition.
Fura-2/AM (Molecular Probes) dye was used to calibrate AF/Fo values with cellular
calcium concentrations using the ratiometric calibration equation developed by Grynkie wicz
(1985). Freshly prepared 2uM ionomycin was used to release all stored Ca and thus obtain a
maximal fluorescence reading (Fma). 2mM MnC, quenches fura-2 fluorescence and was used to
obtain a minimum reading (Fp). Fura-2 experiments were conducted on an Axiovert S100
microscope (Zeiss); MetaFluor 4.1 (Universal Imaging) was used for data acquisition and analysis.
Dye loading procedures were identical to Fluo-3 experiments, but perfusion was done by hand
with a micropipette.
Data Analysis: At the completion of each experiment, ten representative cells were selected as
regions of interest. The fluorescence intensity of these cells as a function of time over the course
of several trials was determined in Fluoview. Data were then exported to Excel (Microsoft) for
organization and subsequently to IGOR Pro (Wave Metrics) or Imagel (NIH) for further analysis.
Data from the ten individual cells were averaged and corrected for initial fluorescence intensity to
obtain values of AF/Fo. Statistical analysis was carried out using Systat 8.0 (SPSS). Where
applicable, statistics are presented as mean + one standard deviation.
Results:
Dye Fade: The fluorescent intensity of Fluo-3/AM fades with time during continued exposure
to light. To quantify the effects of dye fade, a four-minute dye fade control was run as the first
trial on each chip. Some trials showed a slight increase in fluorescence; others a slight decrease.
The patter of increases and decreases was random, and all trials approximated linearity. The
mean best-fit line slope (N=43) was 9.957E-O5 + 2.756E-4, not significantly different from zero.
Thus dye fade was not considered a significant confounding factor in interpreting the results.
