Calibration of intracellular [Ca*: Using the equation developed by Grynkiewicz (1985) and
assuming a fura-2: Ca Kd of 135 nM (Molecular Probes), the concentration of intracellular Cat
of a typical cell in the standard 2 mM Ca solution was determined to be 51.1 nM.
Response to Changes in Extracellular Ca: TRPM expression increased the sensitivity of
intracellular Ca** concentrations to changes in extracellular Ca“. When external [Ca was
decreased from a 2mM solution to OmM EGTA-buffered saline, cells expressing the ion channel
underwent a 26 + 15% drop in fluorescence while control cells experienced a smaller 11 + 2%
decline. When external [Ca was increased from OmM to 2mM, cells expressing the ion channel
underwent a 30 + 28% maximum rise in fluorescence while control cells experienced a decline of
2 + 12%. These results suggest that TRPM is a significant pathway of calcium entry.
Representative plots are shown in Fig 1.
Effects of Exogenous cAMP: The addition of 100uM or ImM exogenous, membrane¬
permeable cAMP to cells incubated in a 2mM Ca solution resulted in a sharp transient rise in
[Cai, followed by dramatic oscillations, or "sparks", with a frequency of approximately
1/minute. A representative plot is shown in Fig 2. Lesser concentrations of cAMP (luM and
1QuM) did not produce either a peak or subsequent oscillations. The addition of ImM CGME
also did not elicit an oscillatory response (Fig 3).
Oscillations continued as long as the cells remained in a medium containing exogenous
cAMP, regardless of changes in extracellular Ca between 2mM and OmM. In the presence of
2mM Ca“, oscillations continued for over an hour. TRPM expression did not have an effect
on the magnitude or frequency of cAMP-induced [Ca oscillations.
In cells expressing TRPM, the previously characterized cellular responses to changes in
external calcium could be detected as a steady rise or fall underlying the oscillations. The steady
change in response to increasing (although not decreasing) external calcium was potentiated by
the presence of cAMP. When external calcium was increased from O to 2mM, the mean increase
in fluorescence without cAMP was 31 + 28% without cAMP and 62 +54% with cAMP (one-
tailed t-test P=.1377).
Pharmacological Manipulation of the Oscillatory Response: A variety of interventions were
made in an attempt to elucidate the mechanism underlying the oscillations. The frequency of
