Page 66
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Spat are only weakly attracted to either T. funebralis or
older C. adunca; this attraction is clearly present in older
individuals.
LITERATURE CITED
CONKLIN, E. G.
1897. The embryology of Crepidula.
Journ. Morph.13:
1-226; plts. 1 -9; 13 text figs.
MORITZ, CHARLES E.
1938. The anatomy of the gasteropod Crepidula adunca
SOWERBY. Univ. Calif. Publ. Zool. 43: 83 - 92; 6 text figs
1939. Organogenesis in the gasteropod Crepidula adunca
SOWERBY. Univ. Calif. Publ. Zool. 43: 217 - 248; 22 text figs
Studies on the Commensal Limpet Acmaea asmi
in Relation to its Host, Tegula funebralis
ARTHUR B. EIKENBERRY JR.
AND
DIANE E. WICKIZER
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
Text figures; 2 Tables)
with its host and both organisms were measured. Notation
Acmaea asmi (MDDDENDORFF, 1849) is a stenotopic lim
of horizontal and vertical position was made.
pet which inhabits the rocky intertidal, and lives almost
Since the five transects varied both in length and in
exclusively on Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854). By
slope, horizontal distribution in terms of absolute distance
studying distribution in relationship to horizontal and ver-
from shore is not particularly significant. However, in
tical position in the intertidal and by considering dis
all five transects populations were concentrated in the
tribution in relationship to food and substrate preferences
middle areas, the regions affected neither by shore line
we hoped to establish a clearer understanding of the adult
wave action nor the wave battering of the outer intertidal.
commensal relationship between A. asmi and T. fune¬
bralis. The following work is a continuation and refine
Furthermore, observations at high tide (WARA &
ment of studies carried out by FREDERICK H. TEST in
WRIGHT, 1964) revealed a qualitative difference in wave
1945, and RUTH RADFORD in 1959.
action between the transects and showed that the num-
TRIBU
ION
ber of Acmaea asmi was generally inversely proportional
During April and May, 1963, distribution of Acmaea asmi
to the wave battering received by the area. Qualitatively,
was studied along Mussel Point on Monterey Bay, Cali
Area B had very heavy wave action and no A. asmi were
found; Area A received a heavy battering and the density
fornia. Every A. asmi noted along five transects by W.
of A. asmi was low. As the wave action decreased from
WARA & B. WRIGHT (1964, see Figures 1 - 5) was collected
