Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 64
THE VELIGER
The young which fall off sink to the bottom. Mucus
and in the path of her head. Other hatched young
adhering to the young affects the rate of sinking, which
may crawl out. The young usually escape from the
ranges from about 1.1 to 2.6 cm/sec (average 1.4 cm/sec)
anterior region of the mother’s shell, which is typically
Once off the host, the young are quite active. Their move¬
oriented on the host as shown in Figure 1.
ment seems random; they are neither attracted to nor
repelled by each other. There is a net movement upward
and towards a light, if this is not too intense. These
actions may even lead the spat to crawl out of the water,
where they dessicate and die within 15 to 20 minutes on
a sunny day. It is perhaps an advantage, therefore, for
L
the newly hatched spat to be washed off the host Tegula


funebralis, which is normally exposed during the tidal
cycle. Sunlight alone has no effect on the newly hatched
Crepidula adunca when they are immersed.



The spat are very active even in still water, and their
random movements tend to disperse them. Simple dis-
persal experiments were carried out in eight finger bowls
with newly hatched young. Ten juveniles were placed in
the center of each bowl and their positions marked on
a grid at five minute intervals. Average motility, based on

these runs, is plotted in Figure 2. Maximum rate of loco¬
motion measured over a short distance was about 0.2
mm/sec.
0
Figure 1: Orientation of Crepidula adunca
on Tegula funebralis.
The egg cases themselves may be expelled immediately
at the end of hatching, which takes approximately one
half hour, or after several days. Not all egg capsules
under a given female are necessarily at the same stage of
development or hatch at the same time.
THE NEWLY HATCHED YOUNG
22
The average newly hatched Crepidula adunca, based on
the measurement of six broods, is 1.19 mm long and
10 15 20 25
0.91 mm wide. The spat when hatched are very motile.
Minutes
They show no tendency to avoid either the mother or the
host; however, many of the spat fall off the Tegula funeb-
Figure 2: Average net distance covered by young
ralis immediately. The number of spat leaving the host is
Crepidula adunca.
increased by any current present; mucus still covers the
spat, and they do not adhere well to any surface. Less
A weak current of water stimulates the spat, which
than ten percent of a brood remain on the parental host
tend to orient upstream and move into the current. In
stronger currents the spat clamp down and remain immo¬
even in still water, where the only motion is that resulting
from the creeping of T. funebralis. The few young re¬
bile unless torn loose by the current. The ability of spat
maining on the host become quiescent sooner and remain
to cling in currents of varying rates of flow is shown in
Figure 3.
so longer than those which fall off.
