Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 65
THE VELIGER
RESPONSES OF JUVENILE Crepidula adunca
TOWARD Tegula funebralis AND ADULT
————- Empty Tegula funebralis shell
Crepidula adunca
— 2 Male Crepidula adunca
Preliminary experiments indicated that adult female
—.—.— Female Crepidula adunca
Crepidula adunca, removed from their hosts, usually
attempted to climb back on, and that adult males are
----
attracted by Tegula funebralis, but even more strongly by
female C. adunca. In contrast, the newly hatched spat
do not appear to be strongly attracted either to T. funeb¬

ralis or to older C. adunca, male or female. The reactions
8

-—
of juveniles to parents and host were tested as follows.
—-—-—-—-—-7

oV
O I 23 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 I 12
8100-
Days after hatching
2 80
Figure 4: Settlement of spat on various substrates.
an occupied T funebralis shell than an empty one,
presumably due to the comparatively rapid motion of
540
the larger snail.
The attraction to Tegula funebralis must increase as
2 20.
spat grow older, since the adult population lives on this
host and shows a clear positive response to it. However.
5 o
this investigator found no Crepidula adunca smaller than
20 30 40 50 60 70
0
3.8 mm in length, 2.8 mm in width and 2.0 mm in height
Rate of flow (ml./cm 2/sec.)
on a T funebralis in the field. Searches for spat or young
adults on rocks, in shells and gravel, and on algae were
Figure 3: Ability of juvenile Crepidula adunca to cling
unsuccessful
to a glass surface in a current. Up to 34 ml/cm’/sec flow,
Adult Crepidula adunca are filter-feeders. However,
random movement continued, with a slight net orienta¬
the ciliated food groove does not appear until after
tion into the current. Above this, the spat clamped
hatching, nor does the food pouch develop until after
down tightly.
the young adult stage (MoRITz, 1939). Scraping motions
with the radula in the young have been observed, which
len newly hatched young were placed in the center of
strongly suggests that the spat may obtain microscopic
each of four finger bowls. To each of three bowls was
food by this means. The young might not be strongly
added, near the edge, one of the following: 2 living male
attracted to Tégula funebralis or to another, older C.
C. adunca, an empty T funebralis shell, or a living female
adunca until their filter-feeding apparatus has developed.
C. adunca. The fourth bowl served as a control. The po-
SUMMARY
sitions of the young free in the bowls or on the various
proffered substrates were recorded daily for a period of
Crepidula adunca is a protandric marine prosobranch
twelve days (Figure 4).
commonly found on the shells of Tegula funebralis. Female
There is no evidence that the spat are attracted to
C. adunca are oriented in a consistent manner on the
légula funebralis or Crepidula adunca. Instead, the
whorls of the T. funebralis shell. There is no free-swim-
young appear to move at random. However, when the
ming larval stage; the brooded young crawl or are pushed
come in contact with any one of these shells, they crawl
out from under the mother as juveniles similar in form
upon it, and their motility thereafter is greatly decreased.
to the adults. The newly hatched spat are very motile;
The presence of the living animal is not a factor; as many
the great majority drop off the host and sink. Weak
settle on an empty C. adunca shell as on one that is
water currents stimulate the spat; there is net orientation
occupied. In supplementary experiments fewer settled on
into current, against gravity, and toward moderate light.
