Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 63
THE VELIGER
FRETTER, VERA, & ALASTAIR GRAHAM
3. Repairs to shells damaged mechanically, by filing
1962. British prosobranch molluscs; their functional anatomy
the aperture, grinding holes in the body and upper
and ecology. London, Ray Soc.; xvi + 755 pp.; 317 figs.
whorls, and by cracking in a vise are described.
JOHNSON, T. W., Jr. & W. A. ANDERSON
1962. A fungus in Anomia simplex shell. Journ. Elisha Mit-
LITERATURE CITED
chell Sci. Soc. 78: 43 -47
BONAR, L.
MCGEE, PATRICIA
1936. An unusual ascomycete in the shells of marine animals.
1964. A new pigment from Tegula funebralis (Mollusca: Gast¬
Univ. Calif. Publ. Bot. 19: 187 -194
ropoda). The Veliger 6; Supplement: 25 - 27; 1 text fig.
The Dispersal of Young of the Commensal Gastropod
Crepidula adunca from its Host, Tegula funebralis
DEBORAH A. PUTNAM
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(4 Text figures)
INTRODUCTION
HATCHING
Crepidula adunca SowERBy, 1825 is a protandric marine
Crepidula adunca breeds the year round (MORITz, 193
prosobranch commonly found on the shells of Tegula
The animals used were gathered from Mussel Point,
funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854), both when the latter is
Pacific Grove, California. Tegula funebralis with the
occupied by the snail and when it is occupied by Pagurus
brooding Crepidula females were kept in glass finger
spp. MORITZ (1938) gives the range of C. adunca as
bowls at 12 to 18° C. Young when hatched were kept
being similar to that of T funebralis: from Vancouver,
similarly. All young used in all experiments were hatched
British Columbia, to the tip of Lower California. CONK¬
without human assistance, both to avoid harming the
LIN (1897) has followed the cell lineage of C. fornicata
young through attempts to liberate them artificially
and C. plana, and MoRrrz (1938, 1939) has treated the
and to establish their age, as the period of development
anatomy and organogenesis of C. adunca.
to hatching is not known.
Crepidula adunca undergoes a very direct develop¬
In the four cases where hatching was observed, young
ment from large, yolky eggs which are brooded by the
Crepidula adunca were released between 8:30 and 10:30
female. The hatching young crawl out of the egg cases
a. m. The egg cases are attached by individual stalks to
as juveniles which are similar to adults. At hatching there
one spot on the Tegula funebralis shell, immediately
may be from 150 to 200 young released. Although no
ventral and posterior to the head and anterior to the foot
pelagic stage is present, the adult population of C. adunca
of the female C. adunca. Normally, the female’s shell
is quite well dispersed over the Tegula funebralis popu¬
is lifted no more than 0.5 mm above the substrate, only
lation near the Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific Grove,
enough to allow water to flow through the mantle cavity
California. The number of adult C. adunca per T. funeb-
for filter-feeding and respiration. During hatching, how¬
ralis shell is relatively low (eight was the maximum
ever, the female intermittently lifts her shell 1 to 3 mm
number seen) as compared to the large number of young
above the substrate, for periods which varied from 3.5
per brood. Clearly, the young become dispersed to new
seconds to about 4 minutes. Then with a forward and
hosts without benefit of a pelagic stage. How this is
downward motion of her head over the egg cases, the
female pushes out those of her young which are loose
accomplished is the subject of the present investigation.
