crab was only between 4 to 5 days. In fact, it is surprising to find L.asmi on the shells
of Pagurus at all, for the hermit crab is a predator of these limpets. Maybe limpets
transfer onto crabs accidentally and then later realize their mistake when their host
moves around quite quickly and keeps fighting with other crabs for bigger shells.
Transfer onto or from hermit crab shells must be quite precarious for a limpet, as
this host is not often found to be stationary long enough for a limpet to successfully
transfer.
L.asmi was observed to transfer substrates more frequently at high tide both
during the day and at night (Figures 18-21). This activity pattern is similar to those
described for other limpets, such as T.scutum, L.limatula, and Mac.scabra (Rogers,
1968; Wells, 1980). These three species of limpets are most active while awash by the
tide. Such an activity pattern is expected for L.asmi because the limpet tends to hold
its shell about half a millimeter above the substrate when it is moving (Test, 1945).
Since the limpet shell is usually lifted to cool the body by evaporation when the
surrounding temperature rises too high, this habit could potentially cause L.asmi to
dry out in the air (Branch, 1986). Therefore transfering substrates while submerged
and pulling down its shell against the T.funebralis when emerged, appear to be
L.asmi's strategies against desiccation. Behavioral observations of L.asmi correspond
well with this hypothesis. Hence T.funebralis is a good host for L.asmi since it is
usually found in protected areas of the rocky intertidal zone where it is wetted at
least once daily (Glynn, 1965). There are many alternative hypotheses to why L.asmi
transfers more fregeuntly at high tide. The transfer may be easier at this tidal level
since the limpets may weigh less, the submerged snails may move more slowly,
more chemical cues may be available to the limpets, and/or the limpets may be
subject to less predation. Further research may test the validity of these hypotheses.
19
