Fig.13: The position of L.asmi on its T.funebralis host in three different habitats.
The body whorl of the T.funebralis shell is denoted as b.w., just as 2nd w. = second
whorl, and 3rd w. = third whorl. When the limpet was found on more than one
part of the T.funebralis shell, all these parts were noted, e.g. b.w./2nd/3rd w. means
that the limpet was on the body whorl, second, and third whorl of its host's shell.
Fig.14: A linear regression of the length of L.asmi shell against the surface area of
its host's shell (n = 45). There appears to be no correlation between these two
variables (r2 = 0.047).
Fig. 15: A linear regression of the total number of days each T.funebralis had
limpets aboard against the surface area of each T.funebralis shell (n = 60). Again
there appears to be no correlation between these two variables (r2 = 0.166).
Fig.16: The transfer rate of L.asmi on T.funebralis. Most of the different snails
ridden over the entire time of the laboratory study had limpets aboard for a mean
number of less than one day. One limpet did remain om a snail for between ten to
eleven days. LTD = low tide day, HTD -high tide day, LTN = low tide night, and
HTN = high tide night.
Fig.17: The transfer rate of L.asmi on hermit crabs. Again most of the different
crabs ridden over the entire time of the laboratory study had limpets aboard for a
mean number of less than one day. One limpet did remain on a hermit crab for
between 4 to 5 days.
Fig.18: The number of transfers between T.funebralis by L.asmi during low tide
day (LTD) for tanksfl and f4. The mean number of transfers per low tide day is
5.1 out of 10 limpets.
Fig.19: The number of transfers between T.funebralis by L.asmi during high tide
day (HTD) for tanks#2 and 13. The mean number of transfers per high tide day is
8.2 out of 10 limpets.
Fig.20: The number of transfers between T.funebralis by L.asmi during low tide
night (LTN) for tanks#2 and 13. The mean number of transfers per low tide night
is 4.6 out of 10 limpets.
Fig.21: The number of transfers between T.funebralis by L.asmi during high tide
night (HTN) for tankst1 and #4. The mean number of transfers per high tide
night is 6.5 out of 10 limpets.
Fig.22: The mean number of transfers between T.funebralis by L.asmi during the
day and during the night. The mean number of transfers per night is 5.6, while the
mean number of transfers per day is 6.7 out of 10 limpets.
﻿26
