juvenile limpets (Brewer, 1975). It is probable that any species of juvenile limpet
living in the vicinity of T.funebralis could be found on this intertidal gastropod at
some point. The smallest limpets of each species, except L.asmi (the only adult
limpet found on T.funebralis), were noted on T.funebralis shells in the field, while
the adults of these same species were noticed on the rock substrate. It is known that
small limpets lose water proportionally faster than large individuals (Branch, 1986).
Hence since tiny limpets are highly susceptible to desiccation, their association with
T.funebralis plays a big part in their survivability. T.funebralis in the field were
frequently found clustered around sea anemones at low tide. This position in the
intertidal appeared to keep their shells continually moist.
It is only possible for an animal with a small aperture to maintain a tight fit on
T.funebralis' curved shell (Ricketts, Calvin, & Hedgpeth, 1985). Therefore, there
must come a point when the association between a juvenile limpet and its host is no
longer advantageous to the limpet. The food available to the growing limpet may be
a limiting factor and the increasing shell size of the limpet makes it harder to clamp
down tightly on the T.funebralis shell. L.asmi have shell characteristics and feeding
habits which are perfectly suited to obtaining maturity on this microhabitat.
The length and height of L.asmi in area 2 was found to be smaller than those in
areas 1 and 3 (P«0.001, Figure 12). L.asmi also tends to occur in the lowest density at
the sandy beach habitat. It is possible that the limpet has differential survival in this
area or a slower rate of growth.
L.asmi in area 3 were found to be larger in length (P«0.05) and height (P«0.1) than
those collected from area 1. This habitat, washed by heavy surge, was also heavily
covered with algae. Larger snails were found in areas with heavy agal covering as
noted previously by Wara & Wright (1964). Therefore the larger L.asmi in area 3
15
