The mean number of transfers made by L.asmi was higher during the day than at
night (P«0.05, Figure 22). This result was quite different from what Lindberg (1990)
discovered in his study. He saw about 40% of the limpets transfer from one snail to
another between the late afternoon recordings of position and the next set in the
early morning. No transfers were observed to take place between his morning and
afternoon recordings. By contrast, the limpets in my experimental setup transferred
in the day, late afternoon, and evening. About 123% of the L.asmi transferred
between substrates daily, a much higher transfer rate than the limpets in Lindberg's
experiment. My transfer rates are similar to those found by Eikenberry & Wickizer
(1964) who studied limpets in a tank for an evening. Eikenberry & Wickizer's setup
would come close to a continual high tide situation, while Lindberg kept his limpets
at a constant low tide, although the substrate was damp. These different tidal
conditions in themselves could explain the discrepancy in their results.
Yet Lindberg still found more transfers at night while I observed more during the
day. Our definitions of night and day overlap from the late afternoon until 10 PM.
Therefore it is my hypothesis that the highest number of transfers occur somewhere
between 6 PM and 1OPM. After my experiment was changed on the 15th day, the
mean number of transfers in all tanks began to rise during the day and fall at night.
Four extra hours of a particular tidal level during the period between 6PM and 1OPM
appears to be enough to increase the mean number of transfers during the day to a
point where they are higher than the transfers at night.
Further research should be done on L.asmi to determine the validity of such a
hypothesis. A careful study of the activity patterns of L.asmi in the field could clarify
matters greatly. Wara & Wright (1964) noted that T.funebralis moves to the top of
rocks during night high tides, but not during daylight high tides. Therefore it would
20
