Figure Legends
Fig.1: The three areas at Hopkins Marine Station where the field studies were
done. Area 1 is a protected, rocky intertidal habitat, area 2 is a protected, sandy
beach habitat with rock outcrops, and area 3 is a steep, wave exposed, rocky habitat.
Figs.2-5: Matrices produced from the data collected from tankst1-44. The value in
each cell of the large matrix is the number of times a numbered limpet (1-10 or
11-20) was found on each numbered snail (1-15 or 16-30), each numbered crab
(31-35 or 36-40), the rock, or the glass substrate. The numbers in column A are the
total number of different snails ridden by each limpet and those in column Bare
the total number of different crabs ridden by each limpet. While the entries in
column Care the total number of transfers between snails by each limpet and
those in column Dare the total number of transfers between crabs by each limpet.
Column E gives the total number of transfers between all substrates (snails, crabs
rock, and glass). The means and ranges for each column is given right below it.
Row A lists the number of different limpets found on each substrate and row B
lists the total number of times a substrate had a limpet aboard. The means and
ranges for each row are provided as are the means and ranges just for the limpets
on snails and just for the limpets on crabs.
Figs.6-9: Another set of matrices created from the raw data from tankst1-44. The
value in each cell of the large matrix is the total number of days a numbered
limpet spent on a particular snail, crab, rock, or glass substrate. Row C gives the
total "limpet days" for each type of substrate and each individual organism. The
mean and range of row Cis provided as are the means and ranges just for the total
"limpet days" on all snails and just for the total "limpet days" on all crabs.
Fig. 19: The frequency of limpets and /or C adunca on T.funebralis collected from
three different habitats. The percent T.funebralis with only Cadunca are given
These values do tend to fluctuate from habitat to habitat whereas the percent
T.funebralis with limpets is almost the same in all three habitats.
Fig. 11: The frequency of various species of limpets and/or C.adunça in three
different habitats. L.asmi occurs most frequently in all three habitats, yet more
frequently in the rocky intertidal than in the others. Nine different species were
found along with Cadunca. The variety and abundance of epizoic limpets and/or
C.adunca varies from habitat to habitat.
Fig.12: Mean L.asmi measurements of shell height and shell length in three
different habitats. The difference in the means from the various habitats were
tested for statistical significance using a two-tailed t-test. It was found that the
difference in the mean lengths between areas 1 and 2 and between areas 3 and 2 are
statistically significant (P«0.001). Even the difference between areas 1 and 3 are
significant (P«0.05), although not as significant. The differences in the mean
heights between areas 1 and 2 and between areas 3 and 2 are again statistically
significant (P«0.001). The differences between the mean heights in areas 1 and 3
are not as strongly significant (P«O.1).
25
