during the day (LTD) and a high tide situation during the night and tankt2 had the
opposite cycle (HTD). Standpipes of different heights were manually replaced to
manipulate water level and low tide had 10 mm depth of water. The room was set
on a fourteen hour light, ten hour dark cycle; where the lights go out at 10 PM. The
snails were periodically fed the soft, fleshy algae (i.e. Mastocarpus and Macrocystis)
that they prefer eating (Ricketts, Calvin, & Hedgpeth, 1985). While krill was fed to
the hermit crabs from time to time.
Position of the limpets was noted three times daily after a few days of checking
their position about every two hours to figure out when the best times were to
record it. The limpets were looked at once in the mid morning, once in the late
afternoon, and once after 10 PM with a red light. Limpet position in tankstl and #2
was followed for a period of 30 days (from May 2 to May 31, 1991). The water level
was changed once after the morning recordings of position and then again after the
afternoon recordings of postion. Halfway through the experiment (on May 17, 1991),
the tidal level was changed after the evening recordings of position instead of the
afternoon recordings. This was maintained until the end of the experiment in order
to allow about twelve hours of each tidal situation to occur in each tank. A replicate
of each tank, tankst3 (HTD) and #4 (LTD), was set up eight days later. A few of the
limpets, crabs, and snails were found dead or eaten over the course of the
experiment. Each of these were immediately replaced with a similar sized organism.
The raw data collected was analyzed first by creating two matrices for each tank,
following the analysis techniques used by Lindberg (1990). The first set of matrices
(Figures 2-5) show the number of times a marked limpet was found on each type of
substrate (i.e. snail, crab, rock, and/or glass). The second group of matrices (Figures
6-9) reports the total number of days a numbered limpet spent on each different
