After collecting T.funebralis and Pagurus in T.funebralis shells in tide pools, it
was clear that L.asmi, C.adunca, and three other species of limpets do occur on
hermit crab shells in the field. The literature would suggest that L.asmi are only
rarely seen on T.funebralis shells occupied by hermit crabs (Test, F., 1945; Eikenberry
& Wickizer, 1964). Yet 2.0% of the hermit crabs collected from the tidepools in the
rocky intertidal had L.asmi on their shells. This is lower than the abundance of
L.asmi on Tegula in the pool habitat(7.5%), but it is still not such a rare occurence to
see L.asmi on Pagurus. L.asmi may transfer to hermit crabs in the field when they
are found amongst T.funebralis aggregations during low tide.
The linear regression of the length of L.asmi against the surface area of its host's
shell showed no correlation between the variables (r2 = 0.047 ,Figure 14). Again no
correlation was found between the total number of days each T.funebralis had
limpets aboard and the T.funebralis' surface area (r2 = 0.166, Figure 15). Hence both
studies in the field and in the laboratory indicated that L.asmi do not show shell size
correlation and this does not interact with the residence time on T.funebralis. It
might be expected that the larger T.funebralis have limpets aboard their shells more
frequently, but this is not what the study revealed. It appears that L.asmi will
transfer between T.funebralis at a frequency where food limitation is not a factor.
The first and second set of matrices produced for each tank clearly showed that
L.asmi prefer T.funebralis as their hosts, although they can also be found on hermit
crabs, the rock substrate, and the glass of the aquaria (in descending order of
preference even though area available for occupancy increases from Pagurus to rock
to glass, Figures 2-9). About 43% of the snails in my study had no limpets on them at
any given time. This figure is very similar to Lindberg's (1990) findings in his study,
although he reported the movement of 16 limpets on 17 snails and I looked at 10
17
