although the internal temperatures tended to lag slightly behind
those at the shell surface. Nevertheless, the barnacle's tempera¬
ture changed quickly, in one case falling 14.2'0. in five minutes.
Exposure to high temperature might be expected to raise
the salinity of the mantle cavity fluid, as suggested by Suzuki
and Mori (1963). To test this possibility the mantle cavity fluid
was removed by inserting a syringe through a hole made in the shell
and the salinity determined with a refractometer (A0, 0-30 C.)
before and after 16 hours exposure to the heat generated by a
60 watt bulb. Initial mantle salinities were 47Zwhile the final
reading was 51.7%. This increase suggests that higher salini-
ties would be produced under harsher conditions. Thus the bar-
nacles might be subjected to high mantle cavity salinities during
periods of midday exposure, suggesting wide salinity tolerance
limits for both adults and embryos.
Adult Tolerance Limits
Specimens of Balanus glandula which were attached to
mussels were cleaned, other species of barnacles removed, and
the excess mussel shell broken away. The specimens were placed
in a pan of sea water to induce cirral activity; the shells were
numbered and the number of active and inactive barnacles noted.
Barnacles not showing activity were considered to be dead and
were not included in the subsequent experiments. At least fifty
"active" barnacles were utilized for each experiment. These
were placed in a refrigerator pan containing well-aerated water
of the desired salinity. Salinities were determined with an
AO refractometer and a Gemware hydrometer. A standard curve was
made for the refractometer by taking readings of 50%, 100%, and
200% sea water and adjusting these to the reading of a sample
of "Normal water". The hydrometer readings were converted by
means of standard tables. The pans were covered to prevent evapo-
ration and aerators inserted through holes in the cover to pro-
vide continuous aeration. These pans were floated in refrigera-
ted sea water, keeping the solutions at a constant temperature
of 9° to 10°0. At intervals of 1, 4, 24, 48, and 72 hours, ten
