mal microprobe inserted so that the probe entered the mantle
cavity under the body. The hole was sealed with wax, effectively
enclosing the probe inside the mantle cavity. At the same time,
a small surface probe was taped to the shell adjacent to the
microprobe and an air temperature probe attached so that it was
at least a centimeter above the rock surface. The three probes
were connected to a switch box which in turn was plugged into
the Tele-thermometer. The temperature was monitored every five
minutes for periods of 2 to 8 hours during both day and-night.
The results, illustrated in figure 1, show that the
mantle cavity temperature follows the shell surface temperature
rather closely. The two temperatures remained within 5 degrees
C. of each other and ranged between 8.9°0. and 38°0.; note that
on May 3 and May 4 the barnacle temperature was somewhat higher
than the surface temperature; however, since it was difficult
to get the surface probe flush with the shell, the strong wind
which occurred on these days could well have influenced these
results by cooling the area adjacent to the shell so that the
surface probe was actually recording the air temperature. In
conditions of extreme exposure during midday in the summer or
at night during the winter, the barnacles could well experience
even harsher conditions.
To check the field data, a similar test was run under
laboratory conditions where ambient temperatures could be con¬
trolled and extended beyond those encountered in the field. In
this as well as all following experiments involving adult barna-
tilus
cles only animals attached to the shells of the mussel My
californianus were used so that the basal plates remained intact
and the animals would not be subjected to injury. The same pro-
cedure was used as in the field experiments except that tempera-
ture changes were induced by immersing the animals in 9°0. sea
water, 14"C. sea water or by exposure to room temperature or the
heat from a 60 watt bulb.
Figure 2 shows the results of this experiment. Again,
the barnacle's temperature followed the shell surface temperature,
