of this behavior in excluding the ambient salinity, the
mantle cavity fluid of B. glandula was sampled in the following
manner. A hole was made in the shell and the mantle cavity fluid
removed with a small syringe. The mantle cavity fluid from seve-
ral barnacles was pooled so that there was enough fluid to use
in the refractometer. The animals were placed in aerated beakers
containing water of various salinities and these were floated
in refrigerated sea water maintained at 8°to 10°0. After 1,
A. 24, 48, and 72 hours, the salinities of the mantle cavity
and of the test solution were determined.
In 10% to 50% sea water, where the opercular plates
were closed, the mantle cavity fluid remained significantly more
saline than the test solution. In 125% to 200% sea water, where
the barnacles were actively feeding, the mantle cavity salinity
rose to that of the test solution. The method utilized is not
precise since it is impossible to avoid getting blood and small
amounts of eggs and tissue in the sample; likewise, the presence
of excretory products might increase the refractive index of the
fluid. This could account for the variability in the salinity
readings. Notwithstanding, the mantle cavity salinity and the
external salinity were different enough in the lower salt solu-
tions to strongly suggest that the barnacles were able to exclude
surrounding water by closing their opercular plates.
Discussion
Both field and laboratory experiments tend to substan-
tiate the close correlation of ambient temperature and barnacle
mantle cavity temperature. Since water remains in the mantle
cavity, even after two days of dessication, a hot day could con-
cievably raise the salinity of this fluid significantly. B. glan-
dula seems to have the capacity to withstand very high salini-
ties: the adults can survive in 300% sea water, while the embryos
can withstand up to 200% sea water. In the embryos, the sac
surrounding the ovigerous lamellae does not appear to provide
protection since there is no volume change or difference in the
rate of lysing between intact and cut lamellae. It is suggested
