water, but closes in salinities of 25% or less. Barnes (1953)
has shown that the nauplii of the same species remain healthy
and active within a range of from 18'oto 300 (approx. 50% to
90% sea water). However, they cease movement in 6 %0 (approx.
20% sea water), and die in one hour in 3%0 (approx. 10% sea water).
Barnes and Barnes observed that B. balanoides exhibited a beha-
vioral response to exposure by extruding the mantle cavity water.
However, they did not consider the question of tolerance to high
salinity as important.
The present study is an investigation of the effect
of salinity on the adult and early-stage embryo of Balanus glan-
dula Darwin (1854). This species occurs intertidally from about
mean high high water (approx. + 10 feet) to the lowest high low
water (approx. + 1 foot), thus spanning several intertidal zones.
Since B. glandula is found up to + 10 feet, it would be expected
to have a high tolerance to the temperature and salinity extremes
which might occur during its normally long periods of exposure
(up to two days).
The results of this study indicate that Balanus glan-
dula exhibits a remarkable tolerance to salinity extremes. The
adult barnacles are able to withstand exposure to salinities of
0%6 to 300% sea water, while the developing embryos show somewhat
less tolerance, dying when subjected to salinity below 50% sea
water or above 200% sea water. Field observations suggested
the normal occurence of increased mantle cavity salinities under
natural conditions of exposure. No behavioral adaptations as
noted by Barnes and Barnes were observed.
Temperature
To determine whether the temperature of the mantle
cavity of B. glandula followed that of its substrate, a popula-
tion attached to granite rock approximately eight feet above
mean lower low water was monitored for temperature changes in
the following manner. A hole was carefully made in the side
of large specimens from the uppermost limits of the population
and a Yellow Springs Tele-thermometer (Model 43 TD) small ani-
