5.
barnacles were removed from each of the test solutions and placed
in aerated sea water (13°to 16°0.) for two days. The barnacles
were then removed from the shells and placed under a dissecting
scope. They were considered to be alive if they reacted to the
light or to a prod with a dissecting needle.
Figure 3 indicates the results of these experiments
and shows that the adults can withstand exposure to salinities
ranging from 0% to 300% sea water. The one animal which died
in the 125% sea water solution was not considered to be signi-
ficant since there were no observed mortalities in solutions of
90% or 150% sea water.
Embryo Tolerance Limits
The two ovigerous lamellae were removed from each mature
adult, one was cut in half and the other left intact. The length
of the clear outside covering of the embryo and the length of
the embryo itself were measured with an ocular micrometer under
a compound microscope. The lamellae were then placed in aerated
beakers containing water of various salinities. The beakers
were floated in refrigerated sea water at a temperature of 9 to
10 degrees C. The lamellae were removed after 1, 4, 24, 48,
and 72 hours and measured as before and the percent of lysed or
crenated eggs noted.
Unlike the adults, the embryos appear to be sensitive
to salinities below 50% and above 200%, as is shown in figure
4. Since the results for the intact and the cut lamellae are
essentially the same, it is evident that the elastic sac surroun¬
the lamella provides no protection to the eggs. Also the eggs
never behaved as osmometers; essentially they either resisted the
osmotic stress with no apparant volume change or they lysed.
Salinity of the Mantle Cavity Fluid
Since the adult can withstand distilled water, it seems
probable that the animal may be excluding water by closing the
opercular plates. The opercular plates remain open in fifty
percent sea water, but there is no feeding; in 25% sea water
the opercular plates close tightly. To investigate the efficacy
