dilute out the CFDASE-laden media may make this approach viable and may reveal
differentiation within a neurosphere.
Differentiation in culture was suggested by the 30% size reduction of neurosphere cells
from PVZ cell size of approximately 6um (see Fig. 7a). Additionally, the standard deviation in
neurosphere size increased over time in culture (see Fig. 7b), indicating that cells in some neural
balls were dividing more rapidly than cells in others. These data suggest that differentiation may
be occurring in culture. Öther studies have shown that growth factors such as retinoic acid
promote neuronal differentiation (Huang et al. 1998) whereas FGFI and FGF2 inhibit neuron
differentiation from neuroepithelial precursor cells by upregulating the expression of the Notchl
receptor (Faux et al., 2001); these and other growth factors may prove to be a potent tool for
preserving the precursor state and manipulating different lines of differentiation from tectal print-
derived neurosphere cells.
Preliminary analysis of Notchl antibody staining suggests that a Notch family receptor is
present in a subset of PVZ cells (see Fig. 8). Given that the available antiNotch IgG is a
polyclonal antibody to a human protein, it is rather surprising that in the zebrafish PVZ there is
enough homology as well as expression for any staining at all. Notch immunohistochemistry
was unsuccessful on the cells derived from tectal printing as poly-lysine proved too moderate to
keep the neurospheres stuck to a slide through the various steps of an antibody stain and the
fixing procedure dissolved both nail polish and paint pen ridges designed to provide a shallow
well for the process on a glass slide. However, acrylic ridges demarking wells on a glass slide
and a single, unmoving stage with a variable temperature setting for the entire fixing/staining
process should permit antibody staining of neurospheres. In addition, Notch ligands such as
Delta, Jagged, Serrate, and Lag2 may prove useful for exploring the controls of division and
