that the observed division is not solely an over-reactive glial response to injury. The exact
location of these post-mitotic cells (PVZ versus tectum) may be clarified by a whole brain
lipofection and incubation, followed by slicing into thin cross-sections immediately prior to
visualization. Using different incubation times, it might even be possible to identify division in
the PVZ and successive migration into the tectum.
Tectal printing demonstrated the expansion of PVZ neural progenitors into neurospheres
over a period of several weeks when driven with growth factors (see Fig. 4). IGF and insulin
combined proved to be a better promoter of neurosphere growth than insulin alone or retinoic
acid and BFGF (see Fig. 5 and 6). Because there was a variation in seeding density from each
tectal print, neurosphere size was examined along with neurosphere concentration. Remaining
tissue remnants also presented a complication as they were at times difficult to discern from
growing neurospheres and may have had some effect on the averaged neurosphere size of the
different growth factor treatments. The use of dual tectal prints from a single fish in growth
factor trials controlled for genetic differences in the expansion of paired cultures and may be
responsible for the higher concentration of neurospheres in the 12 day IGF/insulin incubation
over the 35 day IGF/insulin incubation.
Neurosphere expansion might be more closely monitored using a sterile microscope stage
and a 96-well plate to isolate individual cells or neurospheres for clonal analysis, as described by
Weiss et al. (1996). Similarly, CFDASE, a lipophilic dye of great use for tracking cell division
by flow cytometry (Hasbold et al., 1999), can be used to quantify cell division in culture. This
approach was attempted in this study but was unsuccessful due to a high background
fluorescence in the media, even with staining of the entire tectum prior to printing and seeding.
Staining and printing within a well insert and movement of the insert along a series of wells to
