INTRODUCTION
The control and regulation of neural tissue regeneration is an area of research that has
immediate relevance for the treatment of human conditions of neural degeneration such as
Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, Creutzfeldt-Jakob, and spinal cord injury. Such research generally
involves the search for neural stem cells: cells capable of indefinite division that possess the
ability to differentiate into several neuronal fates. Zebrafish provide a useful model for division
and differentiation in adult neural tissue as they continue to grow throughout their adult lives,
unlike mammals which generally stop growing with the onset of sexual maturity. The zebrafish
brain is constantly generating new neural tissue as it increases in size and has the regenerative
capacity to repair extensive neural damage (S. Thompson, unpublished data).
The optic tectum of the zebrafish is a large, striated, complex structure of the dorsal
zebrafish brain consisting of four zones subdivided into 15 layers (Wullimann et al., 1996). The
tectum receives nonvisual neuronal input from many parts of the brain (Northcutt, 1982) and
probably functions analogously to the mammalian prefrontal cortex with tasks such as multi-
sensory processing and integration. However, the periventricular zone of the optic tectum,
composed of round, undifferentiated cells, has a very different morphology from the rest the
tectum and presumably serves a different function. Tectal growth may be a result of the division.
migration, and differentiation of neural precursors from a reservoir of such cells in the PVZ. A
migration/differentiation model of neural regeneration has been demonstrated by Lois and
Alvarez-Buylla (1994) for mouse neural precursors which migrate from the lateral ventricles to
the olfactory bulb and differentiate into neurons. This study focuses on cell morphology in the
tectum and PVZ using biolistics to introduce a lipophilic dye into the membranes of scattered,
individual cells. Furthermore, GFP lipofection was used as an assay for cell division in the
