Martinez, E. The Distribution and Shell Utilization of the Female Hermit Crab
The proportions of P. granosimanus non-ovigerous, ovigerous, and males
do not appear to be strongly correlated to wave exposure. No trend was
significant but a greater sample size may be needed for a further analysis. The
lack of a significant difference may be that the overall habitat, i.e., the
protected, exposed, and semi-protected areas, are indeed different, but the
micro-habitats of where the hermit crabs live may not make one type of crab,
say an ovigerous female, more or less susceptible to predation, dessication, and
thermal stress. Also, courtship involves two hermit crabs being in close
proximity for sometimes as long as two days (Coffin 1960), while the male goes
through various movements, still holding onto the female’s shell. If an exposed
area really provided significantly higher water turbulence without the
convenience of a micro-habitat, it would be difficult to have courtship for a
long time without the loss of some chelipeds.
At each transect, the difference in relative tidal height did not correlate
with the number of non-ovigerous, ovigerous, and males found. This suggests
that ovigerous females did not seek different habitats than non-ovigerous
females, at least in vertical height. However, more collections at different
transects with higher numbers of hermit crabs would be required to resolve
any subtle patterns, such as high temperatures, which cause eggs to fall from
the pleopods prematurely.
At most of the transects, ovigerous females had shells with less damage
than the non-ovigerous females’ shells. For the avoidance of broken shells by
the ovigerous female, there are at least two possibilities for this trend: (1)
females are more likely to become reproductive when occupying an intact shell,
or (2) ovigerous females prefer to move into intact shells.
Courtship can take between one and two days, and since the male holds on
to the female’s shell during all that time, the lip of the shell must still be
