Martinez, E. The Distribution and Shell Utilization of the Female Hermit Crab
collected within the 0.25 m2 area, collection was expanded to the surrounding
area, but did not exceed 1.0 m2. Specimen collection was done while the site was
partially submerged to facilitate locating motile hermit crabs and to reduce the
chances of missing hidden individuals. After collection, crabs were placed in
holding tanks with running sea water. Crabs were fed on a diet of the brown
seaweed Pelvetia.
Hermit crabs were removed from their shells by piercing the whorl of
the shell with the edge of a small, flat screwdriver, and gently proding the
abdomen with a thin piece of magnet wire. Two other methods, heating the
shell with a soldering iron, and placing the crab in mixture of freshwater and
seawater were tried but were not consistently succesful. Out of 400 crabs,
piercing the shells and proding resulted in 5 deaths. Piercing the shell resulted
in loss of a small portion, usually no bigger than 1.5 mm2. Since these
fragments were only a small proportion of the total weight, shell weight
measurements were considered reliable.
After crabs were removed from their shells, they were placed in small,
plastic cylindrical containers with running sea water. Some individuals
burrowed under the shell rubble substrate of the containers.
The following data were recorded for each crab: species, sex, shield
length, wet weight and number of eggs. Sex was determined by locating the
gonopores on the third pereiopods for females and on the fifth pereiopods for
males. Shield length, from the tip of the rostrum to the edge of the hard
carapace, was measured to the nearest 0.1 mm with Venier calipers under a 7X
magnification dissection microscope. Specimens were blotted dry before wet
weight measurements. Eggs were removed from females by clipping the three
pleopods to which eggs are attached, and the eggs were counted under 7X
magnification. Seven clutches were removed and the eggs individually counted
