The variation of bacterial abundance showed no significant difference based on distance
from the loading site, even though it has been shown in the past that bacterial community
composition is greatly different near seal beach. Abundance of bacteria, regardless of species
composition, showed little spatial variation at any given time (Figure 8), but other factors do
contribute to increased amounts of bacteria, particularly water temperature. A higher sea surface
temperature usually meant a higher number of bacteria in the water, perhaps suggesting warmer
temperatures is more conducive to bacterial growth. However, there could very well be other
confounding factors, such as upwelling, which effects both water temperature and nutrient
abundance (Pinet 2000), that were not tested in this experiment. There seemed to be
unexpectedly more seals hauled out on days when there were lower counts of bacteria in the
water, but these were also days when the water was cooler. A possible logical explanation for
this correlation is the seals were more inclined to be out swimming when the water was warmer,
and hauled out to sleep in the sun when the water was cold, as it has been shown that at least
during the molting season, seals will haul out for the purposes of increasing skin temperature
(Sydeman 1999). This experiment, too, showed a general trend of more seals on the beach when
the air was warmer, or when the water was cooler (Figure 7). The roughness of calmness of the
sea (as measured by my personal observations) did not show any correlation with bacterial
abundance, which may imply that fecal bacteria are not flushed from seal beach is by high
swells. However all samples in this study were taken at high tide, so perhaps tidal currents have
a stronger flushing effect than wind-driven waves (Boehme 2005). Tidal flushing of bacteria,
seal haul-out habits, and bacterial abundance changes based on water temperature could all be
investigated in future studies. To better understand the impact on the health of human
Beltracchi 201
