counts were only significant at the .25 level. The microscope data was then tested with a post
hoc Student-Newman-Keuls test, which showed that May 2 is significantly different than the
sites with the lowest means (May 9 and 10), but no other differences were detected. The control
sample of deionized water from the lab had a very high number of cells, and although the
bacterial counts were lower than any of the ocean samples, the Student-Newman-Keuls test did
not show that it was significantly different than any sample other than the very highest ones.
This daily variation was compared to daily variation of environmental factors that may
have influenced bacterial abundance, including the number of seals on the beach, sea surface
temperature, wind speed, and air temperature. The environmental factor with the strongest
correlation to bacterial abundance was sea surface temperature, with an r°2 value of 29989
when compared to the microscope daily means, and r°2- 647 when compared to the daily means
of flowcytometer counts (Figure 3). The samples taken on May 2 in particular showed an
unusually high abundance of bacteria in both the microscope and the flowcytometer counts,
when the water was 13C at the time of sampling. This temperature was warmer than any of the
other sampling times (average between 11 and 12 degrees). In addition, the May 2 samples, as
well as those taken on May 16 and 17 showed only 2 distinct populations of bacteria in the
flowcytometer, while the samples from April 27 and May 6,9, 10, and 11 showed 3 populations
of bacteria (Figure 5). May 16 and 17 did not have outstandingly high sea surface temperatures,
but May 16 had the highest air temperature of 13.58C at the time of sampling.
Air has a lower heat capacity than water, so these two variables did not correlate
particularly well (r42=.057), and bacterial abundance did not correlate with air temperature as
well as it did with water temperature. The could have been some heat transfer, suggesting the
high bacterial count on May 16 and 17 could have been effected by warmer weather, although
Beltracchi 2011 6
