Gourley, p. 5
by-frame analysis of when the bubbling begins. In the case of the first cell death in
Carb/N6-MM-L-Arg, the dying cell was the one growing the process whose contact with
the soma of a second neuron appeared to be coincident with initiation of its death. The
other two deaths in this assay occurred simultaneously when a new neurite growing from
what I will call neuron A contacted neuron B, who already shared contacts with neuron C;
neurons A and C died while B appeared to remain viable.
DISCUSSION
Neurite Initiation
The 10-fold increase in the incidence of neurite initiation and the statistically
significant 4.5 fold increase in the proportion of cells with new neurites in the dibutyryl-
cGMP incubation are particularly interesting in light of the observation that a wide variety
of neurotransmitters elicit substantial elevations in cytoplasmic levels of cGMP7. Coupled
with this observation, the results here are consistent with a model that describes cGMP as a
molecule that links incoming chemical information to the development of processes used to
collect such information. This model of cGMP as the transducer between neurotransmitter
stimulation and neurite initiation can be extended to speculate that each different
neurotransmitter may coactivate additional cascades and/or use different pathways to elicit
this elevation in cGMP, and other elements of these pathways could determine the nuances
of a specific neurotransmitter's effect. Acting in concert with the general action of cGMP's
induction of neurites, the elements of the specific pathway used to induce cGMP elevation
might fine tune the neuron's response, i.e. by determining the degree of branching in the
neurites initiated or the receptors to be expressed in the neurite membrane.
The results of the experiments presented in Figure 2 illustrate that the elevation in
the incidence of new neurites under incubation in 1 mM carbachol is prevented when 1 uM
No-MM-L-arginine is also present. 1 HM N6-MM-L-arginine alone lowers neurite initiation
below that of the control while the biologically inactive isomer, 1 uM N6-MM-D-arginine,
