Gourley, p. 7
Cell death
Attempts to assign responsibility for the contact-related cell deaths observed here
find membrane permeant molecules among the most attractive suspects. In some cases,
contact-related death occurs in cells possessing the neurite that makes the contact coincident
with the death behavior, while in others, cells that receive the contact die. It seems unlikely
that the growing neurite would express the receptors at its tip that would be necessary for a
neurotransmitter-mediated communication causing the death of the neurite containing cell,
although such a mechanism cannot be altogether ruled out. Nitric oxide (NÖ) is one such
diffusable molecule which has potential for cytotoxicity through reaction with superoxide
(O2-) to form peroxynitrite. Radi et al.8 report that potentially toxic levels of peroxynitrite
can be achieved in tissues under conditions when -NO and O2- production are stimulated,
due to a 100-fold increase in peroxynitrite for every 10-fold increase in -NO and O2
concentration. Since all of the contact-related deaths observed occurred in experiments
involving carbachol, carbachol-stimulated increase in -NO production would be an
appealing model, were it not for the observation of contact deaths in the coincubation with
the N°-MM-L-arginine derivative that should inhibit-NO production. However this result
does not rule out nitric oxide involvement in the incidents as any disruption of normal-NO
production could be detrimental to the cells through disturbance of the regulation of
enzymes involved in -NO production or quenching. For example, depression of -NO
production could cause an upregulation of the production of NO synthase that
overcompensates the competitive inhibition of the enzyme due to N6-MM-L-arginine, and
results in a net increase in the amount of -NÖ produced. Alternatively, the carbachol
stimulation could in some way be affecting the expression or activity of superoxide
dismutase or other antioxidants that protect the neurons from-NO toxicity.
Further experiments are necessary to better characterize the contact-related deaths
that have been observed; investigations of particular interest include incubations in other
cholinergic agonists and agents that manipulate -NO levels. This behavior may be specific
