Gourley, p. 6
elicits no such change. Since the L-arginine derivative acts as an competitive inhibitor of
nitric oxide synthase, and thus blocks the production of CGMP by nitric oxide, the data are
consistent with a model that describes cGMP production by nitric oxide as at least in part
responsible for the cGMP-mediated initiation of neurites in unstimulated cells, as well as
cells under MI muscarinic stimulation.
Further experiments are necessary to assign statistical significance to the analysis of
the incidence of new neurites with respect to the number of cells in the field. Additionally,
assays employing different methods to block the carbachol pathway would be more
informative, perhaps using carbachol with irreversible muscarinic antagonists or blocking
agents more specific to nitric oxide synthase than the N6-MM-L-arginine used here. Since
this derivative should in some way affect all systems requiring the natural amino acid,
analysis of its effects are problematic and can not be conclusively interpreted in isolation
from all these other systems. However, from the statistically significant increase in the
proportion of cells growing new neurites under dibutyryl-cGMP it can be concluded that
elevations in the intracellular levels of cGMP stimulate growth of new neurites in NIE-115
neuroblastoma cells.
These results suggest the potential significance of cGMP as a second messenger in
the development and plasticity of neuronal networks. Investigating the correlation between
cGMP levels and neurite initiation in actual brain and nervous tissues is the next critical step
in determining just how universal this role of cGMP is in actual nervous systems. Such
studies would be particularly interesting in the hippocampus in light of observations of
dramatic elevations in intracellular cGMP levels correlated with the induction of long-term
potentiation (LTP) - a model of learning and memory at the cellular level - in hippocampal
CA-1 cells. Finding a correlation of cGMP elevations with neurite initiation in the CA¬
cells would establish cGMP as a key messenger behind the long-term structural changes
characteristic of LTP.
