Gourley, p. 4
RESULTS
The neurite growth expressed as the average number of projections initiated per cell
in the field during a two hour incubation in each of the four given chemical treatments is
shown in Figure 1. A new neurite was defined as any projection that 1) was present in the
final recorded frame while undetectable in the first frame after chemical introduction, 2)
originated directly from the cell body, and 3) had a length-to-base ratio greater than unity
(to distinguish from lamellipodia). Incubations in ImM carbachol, ImM 8-bromo-cAMP,
ImM 8-bromo-cGMP, and ImM dibutyryl-cGMP all exhibited elevated incidence of
neurite initiation relative to the NE saline control, dibutyryl cGMP causes the most dramatic
contrast with greater than ten-fold increase above control. Figure 2 presents the results of
coincubation with ImM carbachol and IuM Né-monomethyl-L-arginine, compared against
controls with each isomer of the Né-MM-arginine derivatives, NE saline, and ImM
carbachol. Both the N°-MM-L-Arg control and the coincubation have an incidence lower
than NE saline.
Comparisons of the percentage of cells exhibiting new growth are shown in Figure
3. A statistically significant elevation in this percentage is found with the cells incubated
with dibutyryl CGMP.
In four of the twelve assays, what I describe as “death behavior" occurred during
the course of the assay. The percent of cells dying in each of these assays is given in
Figure 4. The phenomenon is characterized by bubbling and expansion of the cell body
followed by contraction of processes, and finally terminal dormancy with a shriveled
appearance. In all assays except Ne-MM-D-arginine, at least one incidence of cell death
appeared to be contact related. The one cell death observed in Carbachol 1 was coincident
with an initial contact by a neurite from another cell. The same occurred for one of the
three deaths observed in Carbachol 2; while no such contact was visible in the other two
cases, these latter two initiated the death behavior simultaneously, as determined by frame-
