Gourley, p. 3
Recordings and Analysis
Immediately preceding each experiment, a glass chip was selected from the plates in
the incubator, rinsed with NE saline and transferred into a well that fits into the stage of the
microscope. The chip was secured onto the floor of the well by using a syringe to dot the
edges with hot petroleum jelly and the chamber was filled with 0.5 ml NE Saline. Äfter
selecting a field that contained neurons with and without processes, the cells were imaged
with a 40X bright field objective, Nomarski prism, and Hammatsu SIT camera. Frames
were taken at 60 second intervals and the images stored on optical disc. . Ten minutes of
incubation in NE saline were recorded for each experiment before the chamber was rinsed
and perfused with the appropriate one of the following solutions: 1 mM carbachol, ImM 8-
bromo-cAMP, 1 mM 8-bromo-cGMP, ImM dibutyryl CGMP, 1 UM NÉMM-L-arginine,
HM NéMM-D-arginine, or 1 UM NéMM-L-arginine/1 mM carbachol. All experiments
involved 2 hours of recording after perfusion with the appropriate solution, with the
exception of those using either of the N6MM-arginine isomers, which required an
additional hour of recording to take into account slow uptake and incorporation of the
amino acid derivatives by the cells. In the case of the coincubation with carbachol and
NéMM-L-arginine, the cells were incubated in 1 uM NéMM-L-arginine for one hour prior
to recording, recorded for 10 minutes in this solution, then perfused with the
carbachol/Né MM-L-arginine solution and recorded for the next two hours. Controls were
recorded for 130 minutes under NE saline.
Data Analysis
The incidence of new neurites was measured in each experiment by determining
which of the neurites present in the frame taken 120 minutes after perfusion were not
visible in the first frame after perfusion. The binomial test was used to determine statistical
significance in the analysis of the proportion of cells with new growth. No such function
could be performed in the analysis comparing number of new neurites to number of cells in
the field as the data collection for many experiments involved only a single field.
