In NIE-115 neuroblastoma cells, observations made with time-lapse photography
under bright field microscopy provide insights into the molecular mechanisms behind two
distinct phenomena: neurite initiation and cell death. A statistically significant increase in
the incidence of neurite initiation occurs upon elevation of intracellular concentrations of
CGMP by use of a membrane permeant derivative: dibutyryl cGMP. Data are consistent
with a model describing cGMP production by nitric oxide activation of guanylyl cyclase as
at least in part responsible for cGMP-mediated neurite initiation both in the absence and
presence of carbachol stimulation
The neuroblastoma cells exhibit a novel form of neuronal death when exposed to
carbachol. Deaths occur upon contact of a growing neurite from one cell onto the soma of
another; in some instances the cell that dies is the target of the "contacting neurite", while in
others the owner of the contacting neurite dies. A proposal is offered concerning the
involvement of nitric oxide in this event.
The molecular events underlying the establishment of neuronal contacts during the
development of the nervous system are a fundamental topic in neuroscience. One guiding
principal in this field is that the shaping of the nervous system often follows a general
pattern of excessive growth accompanied by a pruning process that is implemented on a
variety of levels. This work describes observations on the process of synaptogenesis
(neurite initiation) and the pruning (cell death) process that leads to the final pattern of
connections.
A main focus of research on neurite initiation has been the involvement of
intracellular Ca24 concentration changes. The collective data are inconsistent, some cells
exhibit no Ca2+ dependence2, while others require influx11. It appears that Ca2+ is
important, although optimum Ca2+ levels above and below which neurite initiation will not
occur may be specific to each cell type. In NIE-115 neuroblastoma cell, Audesirk, et al.1
present data indicating modulation of neurite initiation by Ca2+ influx through L-type
channels. One of the main actions of cytoplasmic Ca2+ is activation of nitric oxide
synthase, which produces nitric oxide to stimulate cGMP formation through activation of
guanylyl cyclase. This study examines the effects of membrane-permeant derivatives of
