Introduction
Bacteria have been cited as a pathogen of eggs and embryos of aquatic
organisms, especially in commercial hatcheries (Fisher, 83, and Harper
and Talbot, 1984). They have been noted to restrict oxygen and foul
crustacean eggs considerably, causing the mother to drop them.
However, studies on shrimp and lobsters have shown
that bacteria found on embryonic surfaces can also perform a useful
service to the developing animal, by keeping off parasites that would
otherwise block gas exchange of the embryo with its surroundings,
and compete for oxygen. The bacteria keep the embryos clear of
Lagenidium callinectes, for example, by producing anti-fungal agents
(Gil-Turnes, 1989, 1992).
The intent of this study was to describe the kinds of
bacteria present on embryos of marine invertebrate species with long
incubation periods, long enough that colonization by bacteria and
fungi may become a potential problem. Bacteria on Pachygrapsus
crassipes, Pagurus samuelis, and Hokinsia rosacea were characterized.
Pachygrapsus crassipes embryos were studied in greater detail.
The female Pachygrapsus crassipes produces large yolky
eggs that are internally fertilized, and then extruded and attached to
the setae on the abdominal pleopods. The female tends this brood
mass, containing some 50,000 eggs, by cleaning and ventilating it for
an average period of 29 days, whereupon the larvae hatch
(Strathmann, 1987, and Hiatt, 1948). Despite her careful preening,
numerous bacteria are present on the surface of the embryos.
In some Brachyura species, gram-negative bacteria,
including known potential pathogens, such as Vibrio, Pseudomonas
and Aeromonas species, are seen in healthy specimens (Brock and
Lightner, 1990). It is interesting to ask whether bacteria covering the
surface of the Pachygrapsus crassipes embryo, too, are a normal, or
even beneficial factor in the crab's development.
This study will compare success of embryos with and
without the bacterial factor. The effect of inhibiting bacterial growth
on the embryos was found to be harmful to the embryo. The embryo
