embryos produced an anti-fungal compound, tyrosol (Gil-Turnes and
Fencial, 1992).
The bacteria isolated in this study showed no anti-fungal
activity, yet the possibility exists that not all bacteria inhabiting the
embryo surface were isolated. Some strains may not have been able to
grow on ÖZR agar, and some strains may have been overlooked
during the initial screening in which bacteria were chosen for further
study from the first platings.
The penicillin G treatments provide an insight into
another possible role of the bacteria. It was found that treatment with
penicillin G resulted in more bacteria, as noted. Because some strains
were resistant to the antibiotic, it may be that after the sensitive strains
were eliminated, the population of the remaining resistant strains
may have exploded.
In a study of the epibiotic flora associated with embryos of
Homarus americanus, the embryos of laboratory spawned females
hosted different types of epibionts from the wild spawned controls,
notably fewer colonial rods. While the wild spawned embryos seemed
unaffected by bacterial associations, a relationship was found between
increase in bacteria and decline in egg clutch size for the lab spawned
embryos. The authors suggest that colonial rods could be protecting
eggs from an unchecked population explosion of other kinds of
bacteria (Harper and Talbot, 1984).
In a study of the bacterial strains on pelagic fish eggs,
some antibiotic treatments stimulated bacterial growth. The author
suggested that the antibiotics in these particular cases either provided
a growth-promoting substance, or merely repressed one or more
strains of bacteria, allowing the other strains better growth conditions
(Oppenheimer, 1955).
In another study, epibionts on the embryos of Cancer
magister were compared before and after treatment with penicillin G
and streptomycin sulfate. The antibiotics prevented non-filamentous
fouling, but algal filaments were resistant to the antibiotic, and
increased in number. In this case, mortalities were reduced.
Antibiotics inhibited harmful epibionts (Fisher, 1976).
