Bingham
High Temperature Induced Torpor in Tigriopus californicus
Page s
RESULTS
In Figure 2 it can be seen that while there is some variation in the
temperatures at which Tigriopus californicus enters a torpor state, 3800
is the temperature which consistently puts over 908 of the animals into
torpor. The North population had the lowest temperature tolerance while
the animals from L.A. were able to survive the highest temperatures. Nost of
the populations went into torpor at 3800, however, there was a statistically
significant difference in the amount of time which the various populations
could withstand the high temperatures. (RC Contigency Test, G-306: giving
a very high level of significance) (Figure 3). Throughout all the experiments
there was a consistent ranking of the geographic populations in increasing
temperature tolerance: North, Nopkins, South, L.A.., L.A.,. Figure 4 displays
the time until 508 of the population was in a torpor state graphed according to
its geographic location along the California coast. The line shown is a
least squares regression fit to the points.
Figure 5 confirms the differences between the populations. The mean
time to torpor and the mean temperature to torpor with standard error bars
are plotted for egg-carrying females from North, Hopkins, and L.A.
populations. The high-temperature tolerance differences between the groups
are all statistically significant. (Student-T-test, Po .0004 level).
The results plotted in Figure 6 show a statistically significant difference
between males and egg-carrying females. (Mann-Whitney U Test, P£ .0001).
The individual Tigriopus californicus proved to be inconsistent in their
torpor response to repeated high temperatures. As a whole population, both
the males and the females significantly increased in temperature tolerance
from Run 1 to Run 2 and the males decreased significantly from Run 2 to Run 3.
(Chi-Square Test, P« .005). The females, however, did not significantly decrease
overall from Run 2 to Run 3, although there were significantly more decreases
than increases. (Chi-
.01).
