Bingham
High Temperature Induced Torpor in Tigriopus californicus
Page 6
DISCUSSION
One of the most important factors in an organism's response to temperature
is its thermal history. Generally, an animal from a warmer climate can with-
stand higher temperatures than animals from colder situations just as animals
from colder environments can tolerate lower temperatures than those from
warmer situations. These may be acclimation differences or reflect different
genetic races. The present study supports this general principle as high-
temperature induced torpor in populations of Tigriopus californicus was
positively correlated with their latitudinally separated habitats. The
colder environment North population was least tolerant of high-temperatures,
followed by the Hopkins group, then the South population, and finally the
most tolerant L.A. populations from the warmest climate. These studies
were carried out on individuals acclimated for at least 20 days at 2000.
Thus it is suggested these may reflect genetic differences in a latitudinal
cline, or may be phenotypic expressions resulting from different thermal
histories. In order to conclusively separate these two factors, further
testing with cross-breeding experiments must be done.
The upper temperature limit for the majority of Tigriopus californicus
is 3800 as only individuals from the L.A. populations remained active above
this temperature. During some preliminary tests, a few individuals from
both the L.A.j and the L.A., populations survived temperatures up to 400c.
Time to enter torpor after reaching the critical temperature appears as a
major adaptive variable with mean differences of 1-1/2 hours between Santa
Cruz and Los Angeles populations. The L.A., population survived consistently
longer in the high temperatures than did the L.A., population. This difference
is statistically significant, suggesting that there are differences among
microhabitat populations as well as major habitat differences. Also, the
L.A. animals appeared to recover from the torpor much more rapidly than the
