Bingham
Page 3
High-Temperature Induced Torpor in Tigriopus californicus
found that Tigriopus californicus completely acclimated to 200c in 10 days
he found no further gain or loss of heat resistance with prolonged acclimation
at this temperature.
A sixth population of Tigriopus californicus was collected at China Point,
Pacific Grove for use in the experiment on sex differences in the high temperature
torpor response. This population was acclimated at 20°C for 48 hours prior to
testing.
In the general test for geographic differences in the high temperature
torpor response, 20 individuals, randomly selected from the same population,
were placed in a depression well containing 2 ml. of fresh filtered sea
water. A total of 200 individuals were tested for each of the five test
populations. The tray of depression wells was placed in a Forma-temp water
bath and the temperature was raised 2°0 every 15 minutes until 33°0. At
33°C the temperature was raised 2°C every 1/2 hour. For all the experiments,
torpor was defined as no body movement when the animal was prodded with the
end of a pipette. Readings were taken every 15 minutes to determine whether
any animals were in torpor and the temperatures in the test wells was
maintained using a Tele-thermometer. When an animal went into torpor it
was removed from the test conditions using a pipette and placed in a petri
dish of filtered sea water at room temperature to recover.
The torpor response to a steady high temperature was tested using a
select group of animals from the North, Hopkins, and L.A., populations. Only
egg-carrying females, selected from the last active 10 of each geographic
population (908 in torpor) when run under the previous test conditions, were
used. 10 individuals from each of the 3 populations were tested. Each
female was placed individually in a depression well containing 2 ml. of
filtered sea water. The tray of depression wells was allowed to equilibrate
in a Forma-temp water bath which was held at 370C for 60 minutes, then at
