Benjamin Jacobson
June 13,1995
Discussion
Treatment with demecolcine appears to have a detrimental effect on the normal expression
of squid K24 channels in 8f9 cells. Patch clamp experiments show a significant decrease
of functional channels in the membrane. The mean conductance density of control cells
was 0618 nS/pF greater than the mean channel density for cells treated with demecolcine.
Abnormal currents described are not specific to demecolcine treated cells, but are observed
in K24 infected Sf9 cells that have been incubated continously at 28? until the time of their
recordings, a treatment that also greatly reduces the probability of observations of so called
normal' K' channels (WF Gilly, unpublished observations). It has also been observed in
control K2Z4 infected Sf9 cells, that these characteristic abnormal currents are seen when
pulse are stepped to high voltages.
in addition, the intensity of the immuno-flourescence staining was far greater in the
control cells than in those cultured in demecolcine. Decreased production of the channel as
observed by a decreased intensity in immuno flourescence experiment is indicative of a
possible effect demecolcine has on a cell's synthetic pathway
A hypothesis can be proposed that accounts for these observations. If cells are
transporting the protein to the membrane along microtubules from the golgi apparatus as
suggested by the tubulin-KZ4 interaction shown by immuno-precipitation, then the absence
of microtubules would eliminate the proper pathway for the channels to be inserted into the
membrane. This may not entirely prevent the proteins from reaching the membrane by
alternative non-microtubule-based mechanisms. In the absence of microtubules, vesicles
containing the channel protein may continue to bleb from the surface of the golgi and
diffuse throughout the cell. This would acount for the diffuse nature of the staining
observed in treated cells. Some of these vesicles may eventually reach the cell membrane
where the K' channel protein is not inserted into the membrane normally. The vesicles that
