Benjamin Jacobson
June 13,1995
which favor polymerization of microtubules decreased the thres hhold for action potentials.
suggesting a link between K' channel exression and microtubule stability in squid axons
In order to further examine the possible role played by microtubules in determining
neuronal excitability, we treated living cells that overexpress a cloned squid potassium
channel with the microtubule destabilizing drug demecolcine and assessed whether these
cells showed normal pattem and level of K: channel expression as evaluated by immuno
flourescent microscopy and voltage clamp recordings. K channel protein was also
immuno precipitated from these same cells under conditions in which many protein-protein
interactions should be maintained. The material precipitated with the K: channel antibody
was evaluated for the presence of tubulin using SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis
followed by Westem blotting with an antibody that specifically recognizes q-tubulin.
The K' channel studied, KZ4, belongs to the KVI family of Kt channel and was
cloned from CDNA of giant fiber lobe neurons in the squid, Loligo opalescens (Perri, et al
1994). The giant fiber lobe (GFL) is a group of neurons whose axons are fused in the
neuropil to form the squid giant axon (Gilly, et al. 1990). In situ hybridization
experiments reveal a high level of KZ4 mRNA expression in the GFL, and physiological
properties of the KZ4 channel when expressed in frog oocytes (Rosenthal, et al 1995) and
in S19 cells (unpublished observations) have a great deal of similarity to potassium
channels present in the squid giant axon.
This study combines electrophysiological and immunological methods of studying
KZA expression. In order to perturb microtubule organization, infected Sf9 cells were
cultured in demecolcine (N-deactyl-N-methylcolchicine), a drug related to colchicine that
blocks microtubule based transport in the giant axon by destabilizing the structure of
microtubules (Brady et al. 1985). The results presented here suggest an interaction
between KZ4 and microtubules in Sf9 cells. Experiments such as these shed light on the
important role microtubules play in determining neuronal function.
