Benjamin Jacobson
June 13,1995
Dependence of Normal KZ4 Potassium Channel Expression on Microtubule
Stability in the Sf9 Cell Line
ABSTRACT Microtubules are a cytoskeletal, filamentous polymer that have been shown
to play a role in fast axonal transport in nerve cells. Further it has been hypothesized that
microtubule stability is a factor in determining cell excitability. By culturing Spodoptera
frugiperda (Sf9) cells that express the KZ4, shaker potassium channel protein in
demecolcine, a microtubule destabilizing drug, it has been shown that there is a link
between microtubule stability and the proper expression of the channel through the use of
electrophysiology, immuno-flourescence, and immuno precipitation techniques.
Microtubules are long, cylindrical filamentous polymers composed of 13
protofilaments. Each protofilament is constructed from repeating subunits of a dimer
composed of o-tubulin and B-tubulin. The two similar polypeptide chains spontaneously
polymerize in the presence of GTP (reviewed by Kirschner 1986). The tubulin polymer is
à cytoskeletal element integral in the dynamic changes in cell morphology such as cell
division. Microtubules have also been recognized as an important element in
compartmentalizing the cytoplasm and holding organelles in place (Albert, et al.). More
recently, microtubules have been found to serve as the pathway for transport of both
organelles and proteins anterograde and retrograde in the axon. This mode of transport
along microtubule filaments forms the basis for for rapid axonal transport (Grafstein
1980).
It has been suggested that there is a physiological link between the excitability of
nerve cells and a structural element, tubulin (Matsumoto 1979). Conclusions concerning
the relationship between excitability and microtubules were reached through results
obtained by perfusing squid giant axons with chemicals like colchicine, vinblastine, and
taxol, known to either favor the polymerization or depolymerization of microtubules. In
these experiments, the axoplasm was extruded from the axons before perfusion, and
intracellular recordings were made to assess changes in action potential threshhold. The
chemical's action on the polymerization of microtubules was also measured in vitro by
analyzing the effects on solution turbidity. These experiments demonstrate that drugs
