Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 58
THE VELIGER
SUMMARI
vantages of escape behavior have been pointed out by
Feder (1959), in his discussion of the food habits of
THE REACTIONS of Tegula funebralis were tested to a
Pisaster ochraceus. He finds that although Tegula is rela-
number of starfishes and carnivorous snails. The responses
tively abundant it is not eaten as frequently as its numbers
vary according to the type of animal used as a source of
might suggest, and that this is due, in part, to the effective
the stimulus. Tegula flees from the contact or presence of
escape mechanisms it has developed. Clark (1958) has
predatory starfishes, ignores non-predaceous ones, and
been able to induce responses in herbivorous gastropods
attempts to escape from or crawl upon the shell of the
by stimulating them with carnivorous ones. The reactions
carnivorous snails used in these tests. Strong escape re¬
are described as similar to those mentioned by Bullock
sponses were elicited on contact with predatory starfishes
(1953). Tegula’s response to 2 carnivorous snails, how¬
such as Pisaster ochraceus, P brevispinus, P giganteus,
cver, has been to go toward the carnivores and attempt
Pycnopodia helianthoides, Leptasterias aequalis and the
to crawl up over them. This, too, appears to have survival
carnivorous snails Thais emarginata and Acanthina spira¬
value.
ta, but not to the non-predatory sea stars Patiria miniata
That the responses are stimulated by a chemical signal
s indicated by the difference in type of response elicited
and Dermasterias imbricata. Escape reactions are also
elicited by substances diffusing from the 5 predaceous sea
by contact with predator tissue and clean probes. The
stars listed above. No similar response is caused by the
substance appears to be diffusible in the case of starfishes
other test animals.
and non-diffusible in the case of snails (Table 2).
While Leptasterias aequalis is too small to eat the larger
l'égula specimens it can certainly eat the smaller ones,
LITERATURE CITED
and the reactions of the large Tegulas may be a retention
BULLOCK, THEODORE HOLMES
of a response adaptive in earlier life or to starfish in gen-
Predator recognition and escape responses of some inter¬
1953.
eral. The one T’egula which gave no response to L. aequa-
tidal gastropods in the presence of starfish. Behaviour
lis and 6 of those which gave a weak response were 20 mm
5 (2): 130- 140
in basal shell diameter or larger.
CLARK, W. C.
From the small number of predator species tested it is
Escape responses of herbivorous gastropods. Nature
1958.
difficult to predict any correlation between sympatry of
181: 137 -138
the predators and Tegula, and the responses of Tegula
FEDER, H. M.
to the predators. However, Pisaster brevispinus must sel¬
Natural history studies on the starfish Pisaster ochra¬
1956.
dom, if ever, be encountered by Tégula yet this starfish
ceus, in the Monterey Bay area. unpubl. Ph. D. Thesis,
elicits a strong escape reaction. It may be that there are
Stanford Univ.; Stanford, Calif.
substances peculiar to the physiology of predatory asteroids
The food of the starfish. Pisaster ochraceus, along the
1959.
and gastropods in general which Tegula can recognize
California coast. Ecology 40 (4) : 721 -724
If this is so then little, if any, correlation between response
SMITH, DEBOYD L.
and sympatry of predator and Tegula is to be expected,
1960. Stimulus-response relationship between certain mollusks
but rather a correlation between feeding habit and escape
and starfish. unpubl. student report, Hopkins Marine Sta.,
reaction.
Stanford Univ., Calif.
