Page 59
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Shell Growth and Repair in the Gastropod Tegula funebralis
(Mollusca: Gastropoda)
MARGARET CAROLINE PEPPARD
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(3 Text figures; 2 Tables)
chlamydospores (see Fig. 3) which differ from those on
SHELLS OF Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854) inhabit¬
the species raised by BONAR, and also from those found by
ing the intertidal areas of Mussel Point, Pacific Grove,
JOHNSON (1962) in a fungus growing on smooth jingle
California, are rarely found to have more than four
shells (Anomia simplex D’ORBIGNY) from Pivers Island
whorls, irrespective of the size of the snail, due to heavy
beach, North Carolina
erosion of the upper parts. Questioning the nature of
Normal shell growth in Tegula funebralis was measured
repair of erosion damage led to a consideration of the
for a fifteen-day period (May 14-29, 1963) on individuals
more general question of shell repair in T. funebralis.
ranging 13.0-27.5 mm in greatest basal diameter. Meas
FRETTER & GRAHAM (1962) discuss shell formation in
urements were made with an ocular micrometer of growth
prosobranch molluscs, but little is understood of shell re
increments on the outer lip of the aperture, secreted on
pair mechanisms
Tegula funebralis lives in what is essentially a tapered
tube, closed at the small end. This is clearly seen in Figs
Explanation of abbreviations used in the figures:
1 and 2. Macroscopically, there are three layers in the
a - shell aperture; an - anus; cm - columellar muscle
shell. The thin, transparent periostracum on Mussel Point
ct - ctenidium; e - eye; f- foot; g- gonad; h - heart;
specimens is present only on the body whorl near the
ht - head tentacle; k - kidney; me- mantle cavity;
shell aperture, if at all. Underlying the periostracum is
op - operculum; os - osphradium; r- rectum; s- shell;
a black prismatic layer. These two layers are secreted
sc - spiral caecum; st - stomach.
only by the mantle margin. Innermost is a thick nacreous
layer, white over most areas, but sometimes yellow or
greenish in the upper whorls. Slides of decalcified shells
mo
embedded in paraffin show the laminar character of the
nacreous matrix.

Most of the specimens of Tegula funebralis from Mussel
M
Point have shells which are conspicuously eroded. Al¬
though some of the erosion appears to be due to the
radular action of predaceous snails, boring of bryozoans


and polychaetes, or mechanical wear, all save a minority
of T. funebralis (individuals measuring 5 mm or less at

the greatest basal diameter) are pitted over most of the


eroded surface. Under 30x magnification, this damage
closely resembles that caused by a fungus described as in¬

.
festing shells of marine animals by BONAR (1936). At
tempts were made to culture the fungus on T. funebralis
on a medium of 100 ml sea water, 1 gm CaCO, 1 ml 1 M
NaNOs, 1 ml 1 M KH-PO., 1.5 gm agar, 1 gm humus,
Figure 1: Ventral view of Tegula funebralis, 8 mm in
5 gm T. funebralis shell, finely ground, 0.1% glucose,
basal diameter; decalcified, cleared in cedarwood oil.
and 0.01% yeast extract. The fungus in culture shows
and with black prismatic layer removed.
