Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 56
THE VELIGER
The Responses of Tegula funebralis to Starfishes
and Predatory Snails
(Mollusca : Gastropoda)
JOHN L. YARNALL
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(2 Tables)
the shell away from the point of contact and the snail
INTRODUCTION
either turns away or crawls obliquely away. Contact with
THE RESPONSES of some gastropods to predators are well
the posterior portion of the foot results in the shell being
known (BULLOCK, 1953; CLARK, 1958; FEDER, 1956;
tipped far up over the head and is often accompanied by
SMITH, 1960). This study was designed to investigate the
violent rocking of the shell through an arc of almost 180
responses of a single herbivorous snail, Tegula funebralis
degrees. As before, the snail crawls away at 2 or 3 times
(A. ADAMS, 1854), to a number of predatory and related
normal speed. In the following contact experiments a
forms. They include: the sea stars Pisaster ochraceus
tube foot, excised from a test starfish, was slipped over
(BRANDT, 1835), Pisaster brevispinus (STIMPSON, 1857),
the end of a probe and touched to various soft parts of
Pisaster giganteus (STIMPSON, 1857), Patiria miniata
Tegula. All of the tube feet were of the grasping type,
(BRANDT, 1835), Pycnopodia helianthoides (BRANDT,
taken from the middle 1/3 of a starfish ray.
1835), Leptasterias aequalis (STIMPSON, 1862), Dermas
Contact with the sole of the foot of the carnivorous
terias imbricata (GRUBE, 1857), and the carnivorous
snails Thais emarginata and Acanthina spirata produces
snails Thais emarginata (DESHAYES, 1839), and Acan-
a greater response in Tegula than a similar touch with
thina spirata (BLAINVILLE, 1832). All of these animals
their shell, proboscis, or tentacles. Therefore, in tests with
occur in the rocky intertidal zone, at Mussel Point, Pa¬
these species, small pieces of the foot were applied to
cific Grove, California, with the exception of Pisaster
Tegula in the manner used for the tube feet of sea stars.
brevispinus, which is found in the nearby sandy subtidal
The responses elicited by contact with the foot of
zone. Hereafter the name Tegula will refer to Tegula
Thais emarginata or Acanthina spirata were essentially
funebralis only.
the same as those following contact with starfish tube feet
with one exception. A Tegula stimulated laterally or pos-
CONTACT EXPERIMENTS
teriorly first twists its shell away from the area of stimula¬
tion, but instead of crawling away it raises its head and
FEDER, (1956) and BULLOCK, (1953) indicate that the
foot and turns toward the point of contact, crawling up
tube feet of starfishes, when they are placed in contact
onto the predator tissue. Placing a shell of the carnivore
with a snail, elicit a greater response from gastropods than
in the path of the Tegula causes it to climb rapidly onte
do any other portions of the starfish body. The responses
the shell.
of Tegula to the tube feet of most of the starfishes tested
The responses enumerated above were not merely re-
are essentially the same as those described by FEDER,
actions to any foreign object. Contact with a clean bare
(1956 pp 143-145) for Pisaster ochraceus and Tegula. Ii
probe only causes a Tegula to retract that part of its body
a Tegula is stimulated in the head region the snail rears
which has been touched and to clamp its shell down
back, raising its head and the anterior portion of its foot.
tightly against the substrate.
This is followed by a turn of approximately 90 degrees
Each predator was tested against 50 Tegulas, 25 of
and the snail crawls away rapidly. Lateral stimulation of
which were stimulated first with the control probe and
the foot and epipodium causes a tipping or twisting of
