Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 62
THE VELIGER
me
Snails with openings over the visceral hump first se-

creted a soft, membranous layer across the inside of the

hole; this later became impregnated with calcium carbo¬
nate. Successive layers, similar in appearance, were built
up beneath the first layer, which bulged through the
opening. After thirty days (April 30-May 29, 1963), one
specimen had plugged the shell window with a hard patch
of white material, apparently calcium carbonate em¬

bedded in an organic matrix. The patch protruded
through the opening like a bubble, and was translucent
at the periphery, opaque in the center portion. Of three
females and two males, with windows cut over the vis-
ceral hump, the females began repair sooner than the
males. None of the snails with windows over the visceral
hump died, although the gonad was frequently ruptured.
On the other hand, animals with the shell damaged by
grinding a hole over the region of the heart and kidney
Figure 2: Dorsal view of Tegula funebralis, same
died in all cases except one. Death was due not to the
individual as shown in Figure 1.
operation, but to the later rupture of the kidney or peri-
aperture, growth of the damaged part proceeded faster
cardial sac against the sharp edge of the opening pro¬
than the growth at apertures of undamaged controls. All
duced by the operation. One specimen which lived an
such operations on the apertures were repaired by the
entire month with this operation failed to successfully
folds at the border of the mantle. The same was the case
repair the damage, for each time the soft membranous
with the windows over mantle cavities. New shell material
layer covering the hole became embedded with calcium
included a black prismatic layer.
carbonate, it was sloughed off through the opening.
When the mantle margin was slit in an otherwise un
In the "windowed" animals, even where the holes
damaged specimen, within two days a notch appeared
penetrated yellow and green layers, I observed no secre-
in the shell aperture at the point apposed to the incision
tion of yellow or green material by the mantle covering
It is not clear whether the notch was due only to lack
the body, nor is it secreted by the mantle margin. Se¬
of growth, or in part due to active resorption of shell at
cretions by other than the mantle margin were always
the point, but within six days the notch was repaired.
either transparent membranous layers or white inorganic
material. However, natural repair does show yellow or
green material, particularly in eroded areas at the shell
apex. Perhaps the inner layers of nacreous material are
dyed by pigments secreted by the visceral hump, specif-
ically either the digestive gland or the gonad (see Mc-
GEE, 1964).
Cracked shells were bound firmly together in a solid
unit within five days by a calcium carbonate-embedded
membrane on the inner surface. Additional white nacre
ous material was laid over the outer surface of the crack
within eight days where the break passed through the
underside of the body whorl adjacent to the shell aperture.
JMMARY
1. Shell erosion is caused by the activities of several ani-
mals (bryozoans and polychaetes), by mechanical wear,

and by a fungus, which was cultured on agar plates.
2. Normal shell growth, recorded over a period of fifteen
days in twenty-eight animals, was intermittent, but
averaged six microns per day added to the outer lip
Figure 3: Fungus found on Tegula funebralis shell;
of the aperture.
part of mycelium with chlamydospores.
