Legend
Fig. 1: MXR protein. This is a hypothetical structure for the P-glycoprotein that is probably
responsible for the multi-drug/multi-xenobiotic resistance. There are three glycosylation sites in
the first outside segment, 12 transmembrane regions, and two cytosolic ATP-binding sites.
Fig. 2: Musk Ketone. Note the aromatic structure, the amino groups.
Fig. 3: Accumulation Assay. Used to observe the qualitative increase in rhodamine B
accumulation. Dots represent rhodamine B. Arrows show the flow of rhodamine B into and out
of cells.
Fig. 4: Efflux Assay. Used to observe the qualitative rate of rhodamine B efflux from cells.
Dots represent rhodamine B. Arrows show the flow of rhodamine B into and out of cells.
Fig. 5: Toxicity Enhancement Assay. Used to observe the effect vinblastine has on dividing
cells in the presence or absence of an inhibitor. Eight cell stage illustrated on left. Single cell
stage illustrated on right.
Fig. 6: Student-Newman-Kuels test used to find statistical differences in accumulation between
specific treatment groups. Treatments were sorted by means in descending values. Bars indicate
statistically non-significant groups.
Fig. 7: Student-Newman-Kuels test used to find statistical differences between treatments in the
toxicity enhancement assay. FSW = fresh sea water, VER = verapamil, VIN = vinblastine, MK1
- musk ketone (luM), MK5 = musk ketone (SuM). The number listed on the second row is the
concentration of vinblastine present in the combination. The treatments are listed in descending
order by mean values of average number of cells per treatment. Bars indicate no significant
difference.
Graph 1: Accumulation in C. fluminea. Relative fluorescence intensity is listed on the Y-axis
for each treatment listed in the legend. The error bars are for the variability among the gill tissue
of 6 clams. Although (1) and (II) depict different concentrations, the problems with variability
are clear.
Graph 2: Accumulation in L. pictus. Relative fluorescence is listed on the Y-axis against the
treatments listed on the X-axis. The standard error shown is for a sample of 30 embryos per
treatment.
Graph 3: Accumulation of Rhodamine in M. californianus. The relative fluorescence intensity
is shown on the Y-axis and the treatments are listed on the X-axis for two mussel samples. The
standard error is shown for the variability within an individual mussel’s gill tissue.
