perturbation. Examination of the MXR effects of musk xylene and other similar synthetic musks
would also be productive.
Another avenue for research would be to repeat this experiment using mammalian
systems. These results strongly suggest that musk ketone may enhance the toxicity of other
compounds, and recent research has shown that musk ketone is already present in alarming
amounts in mammalian environments and organisms (Müller et al 1996). These factors make
research into the possible effects musk ketone may have on mammalian systems imperative.
Further research into this area would also bring the analogies between the less understood aquatic
MXR and the more understood mammalian MDR closer. This would help further the
understanding of the MXR mechanism.
Finally, further research must be done on the subtle effects pharmaceuticals and
personal care products have on the aquatic environment. As seen in this study, musk ketone-a
compound used ubiquitously in everyday products--enhances the accumulation and, therefore,
toxicity of other compounds in marine organisms. However, musk ketone is only one of the
pharmaceuticals and personal care products that exist in treated water. Given their proven
durability, their pervasive production and use, and the preliminary indication of their
bioaccumulation, we cannot afford to ignore the PPCP's possible synergistic effects on the
environment and, ultimately, us.
Acknowledgements
I want to thank David Epel for inspiring this project and for being a willing listener and sound board for
ideas; Stuart Thompson for his incredible help in clarifying and refining this project; Jim Watanabe for his help
on the statistics and for asking the questions that needed to be asked; Nancy Eufemia for holding my hand through
the millions of assays, her help in putting this all together, and for introducing me to Dr. Laura; Chris Patton for
all the technical guidance and assistance; Richard Kuo for letting me use his sea urchins; Chris Gignoux for being
absolutely ridiculous in lab; and my wonderful house mates for the fun food and gourmet times.
