Daughton and Ternes suggested a possible synergistic increase in PPCP toxicity through
an interaction with the multi-xenobiotic resistant transporter (1999). The multi-xenobiotic
resistance (MXR) mechanism, a homologue to the multi-drug resistance phenomenon seen in
mammalian systems, has been suggested as a first line of defense against xenobiotics in aquatic
organisms (Epel, 1998). True multi-xenobiotic transporters can efflux a variety of lipophilic
compounds from the cytosol and lipid membrane of a cell (Shapiro et al. 1997, Shapiro and Ling
1997, Endicott and Ling 1989). Certain substances—referred to as MXR modulators—interfere
with this efflux mechanism by binding to the MXR protein (Eytan et al 1996). This interference
prevents MXR from effluxing other environmental xenobiotics, and could heighten the effects of
these xenobiotics on the cell. Moderate hydrophobicity, amphipathicity, low molecular weight,
and the presence of a basic nitrogen atom characterize most MXR modulators. These properties
are also present in musk ketone. This suggests that musk ketone could be such a MXR
modulator.
Multidrug resistance in mammalian cells often coincides with a 170-KD membrane
glycoprotein (P170), a P-glycoprotein (Pgp) [fig. 21 (Morrow et al. 1988). There is an
immunologically similar protein present in aquatic organisms. Polyclonal antibodies raised
against hamster P170 cross-react with a similar membrane bound protein in marine organisms
(Waldmann et al 1995, Kurelec 1997). Since its discovery and the correlation between its
expression and the development of the MXR mechanism in various cells, this protein has become
synonymous with multi-xenobiotic/multi-drug resistance. In this study, I used the presence of
this protein to select the appropriate systems in which to study MXR. This immunologically
similar protein is seen in relatively high concentrations in the marine mussels Mytilus
californianus, and M. edulis used in this study, and relatively lower concentrations in the sea
