entire duration of the pattern was approximately 300 ms (Fig. 16). Series of action
potentials were also recorded, with each individual action potential lasting less than 10 ms.
à frequency of 100 Hz. The first two spikes were separated by only about 15 ms, with a
longer separation time of about 50 ms between the remaining spikes. The signals had a
ration of amplitudes of 1:3, with the middle signal having the largest voltage (Fig. 17).
Discussion
Swimming Behavior
Qualitative observations of swimming behavior indicated that active locomotive
behavior increased with time. The gradual change to more complete use of the trunk and
tail for swimming seems to indicate a developmental period in which larval bonito gains
greater control over their muscle groups to produce more adult-type swimming.
The time budget of activity clearly showed a trend of increased activity with age
(Fig. 3). This falls into place with our general observation of increased activity with age,
and implies that the larval fish are developing swimming behavior over time to reach adult
swimming behavior. The peak of activity seen on day 8 may have been due to the hoverins
behavior. Hovering was first exhibited on day 8, and the fish seemed to spend more time
hovering on the first day of demonstrating the behavior than on consecutive days. The
drop in activity seen on day 13 may have been a result of metamorphosis, which generally
occurs on day 12. Fish that did not undergo metamorphosis on day 12 may have begun to
die.
Although there did appear to be a slight trend for increased flexion over
de velopment, further data collection would be necessary to quantify the significance of this
trend since our data should that the difference in flexion was not significant. Past studies
have hypothesized that fish may use bending stiffness of their bodies to modulate their
swimming behavior (Long and Nipper, 1996), which implies that as a fish gains greater
control over its locomotion its flexibility may change. Our data did not show a significant
change in maximum body flexion. However, we did not account for muscle development.
