locomotive behavior seen in Stage 3, where the tail is used in addition to the trunk and
turns are initiated by the head followed by the tail. By late Stage 4, the obvious tiering of
cell bodies disappeared, with the cell bodies becoming more evenly layered and equal in
size. If the various tiers of cells had innervated different muscle groups, more uniform
distribution and size could indicate equal control over all muscle groups producing
locomotive behavior. This could correspond to our observations that early in development,
locomotive behavior is dependent on movements of the trunk and evolves to consist of use
of the trunk and tip of the tail. Again, we could not specifically determine innervation of
motoneurons into specific muscle groups. However, development of the more complex
tiering of cells through Stages 1 to 4 does correlate with the notion that the nervous system
of the larval bonito is undergoing rapid morphological and organizational changes before
the onset of metamorphosis, which occurs in Stage 5.
Our observation that motoneuron development first takes place in more rostral
segments and then in the more caudal segments in later stages (Fig. 10) seems to indicate
that larval bonito have less control over their caudal segments earlier in development,
consistent with observations that Stage 1 fish use their trunk, or more rostral segments, for
locomotion. Later in development, the number and complexity of the caudal motoneurons
increased, indicating that the fish would have greater control over their tails for use in
locomotive behavior. This is also consistent with the observation that later stage bonito use
their tail in locomotive behavior.
EMG Recordings
The high frequency burst of electrical activity seen in Stage 1 fish (Fig. 11) may
correspond to the quick burst of swimming activity observed during behavior. The
signals produced by the early Stage 2 fish (Fig. 12) differ from the activity seen in the
Stage 1 fish, consisting of less spikes overall which were about equal to or lower in
frequency. This signal probably constitutes a different swimming pattern than that in the
