Introduction
The neural circuitry underlying swimming movements has been well studied in
cyclostomes and embryonic and larval amphibians, but little is known about the neural
basis of the swimming motor pattern generator in teleost fish (Yoshida et al., 1996). The
zebrafish (Danio rerio) has been used as a model system for swimming behavior and
nervous system development due to its rapid development and transparent larvae, making it
easy to visualize motoneurons. Preliminary observations of the Pacific bonito (Sarda
chiliensis) suggested that bonito would serve as an ideal model system in which to study
the anatomical, mechanical, and behavioral processes underlying the acquisition of
swimming behavior in teleosts. Bonito larvae, like zebrafish, are transparent. They hatch
within 2 days after fertilization at 22-23°C and undergo rapid growth throughout a larval
life lasting only 11 or 12 days post fertilization (dpf) before undergoing a rapid
metamorphosis to the juvenile stage. The short larval period suggests rapid development
and organization of the spinal cord motoneurons and axial motor systems. The purpose of
this study was to begin the investigation of the bonito as a model system for studying the
acquisition of swimming behavior and underlying neural activity in teleost fish.
In order to produce swimming behavior an optical stimulus, such as a rotating
striped drum, is often used (Harden Jones, 1963). This type of optical stimulus has also
been used to study the development of vision in zebrafish, where the rotation of a striped
drum evokes an optokinetic response (OKR) (Easter and Nicola, 1996). Behavior of a fish
can be quantified using a time budget, which accounts for all activity of the fish in a given
time period. The most basic time budget divides behavior into two categories; active and
inactive. The maximum flexion a fish can perform may also be important because in order
to produce undulatory movements, the fish must be flexible in lateral directions (Videler,
1993). In order to investigate the neural circuitry responsible for producing swimming
behavior, we studied the motoneuron development during the larval period and
electromyography (EMG) recordings.
