Abstract
As the first step in investigating the Pacific bonito (Sarda chiliensis) as a model
system for studying the acquisition of swimming behavior and underlying neural activity in
teleost fish, we studied the changes in the swimming behavior, anatomy of motoneurons,
and muscle activation throughout the larval developmental period. The larval period lasts
just 12 days, during which there is rapid development of locomotion. At 12 days post
fertilization (dpf), bonito undergo a rapid metamorphosis to the juvenile stage. The short,
12-day developmental period suggests rapid development and organization of the
motoneuron and motor system. Swimming behavior was videotaped for five fish in each
day, and analyzed by determining a time budget for active time and determining maximum
body flexion exhibited by each fish. Motoneurons were fluorescently labeled with Dil and
muscle activity was recorded using electromyography. Locomotion is initially produced
using the trunk and develops to include use of the full tail and tip of the tail. Early in
development, larval bonito spend the majority of their time inactive but sustained
swimming periods become more common as the fish develops. Maximum body flexion
did not appear to change with development. The number of motoneurons increased from
less than 10 to over 30 cell bodies per segment. We also observed two types of
motoneurons which differed in morphology. Cell bodies also appeared to develop in tiers
until they were of the same size. Motoneuron development first took place in more rostral
segments of the fish with the number and complexity of the motoneurons decreasing
toward caudal segments. Signals obtained from EMG recordings appeared to correspond
to the basic swimming modes of rapid bursts and longer duration swimming using tail
beats. We cannot draw a direct correlation between swimming behavior, motoneuron
anatomy, and muscle activity based on the data obtained thus far, however, we have shown
that development of bonito swimming behavior is associated with rapid development of the
motoneuron system and muscle activity which correlates to swimming mode.
