The electrical signals recorded from the Stage 1 through 3 fish could coincide with
the behavior observations of the bonito. Early in development, the fish display mostly
short periods of quick forward propulsive activity, which could correspond to the high
frequency, short burst of electrical activity. Later in development, the fish are able to
maintain longer periods of swimming, along with longer bursts of rapid activity. The
slower more sustained tail beats seen in steady swimming could possibly correspond to the
singular action potentials and the bursts of rapid forward propulsion could correspond to
the more complicated burst patterns.
Our EMG recordings cannot be correlated directly with specific behavior patterns or
firing of specific motoneurons because typically, a directly correlatable behavior was not
observed and insertion techniques were not optimal. Use of the single-insertion electrode
makes it impossible to determine the source of the electrical signal. Furthermore, because
the fish was much smaller in size relative to the electrode, it was difficult to determine
where exactly in the fish the electrode was inserted and stereotyped activity produced by
each motor unit which could have been recorded is unknown.
Conclusion
We cannot draw a direct correlation between swimming behavior, motoneuron
anatomy, and muscle activity based on the data obtained thus far. However, it does appear
that rapid development of locomotion is accompanied by rapid development of
motoneurons, in terms of number, complexity, and organization. EMG recordings seem to
correspond to the basic swimming modes of rapid bursts and longer duration swimming
using tail beats. Our study only begins to scratch the surface of the full-scale investigation
of bonito development. Further studies are needed to continue the development of the
bonito model system.
Acknowledgments
Iwould like to thank my partner in carrying out this project, Linda Nevin, along
with Stuart Thompson, Matt McFarlane and Christian Reilly, for their assistance in the
