which is occurring concurrently. Greater muscle development may allow fish to modulate
their flexion.
Motoneuron Dye Injections
While we were able to identify two different types of motoneurons occurring in the
bonito (Fig. 7), we were not able to determine the exact areas innervated by individual
motoneurons. It is possible that the Type A and Type B motoneurons correspond to the
primary and secondary motoneurons characterized in the zebrafish (Myers et al., 1986). It
was shown in zebrafish that the three primary motoneurons precisely innervate cell-specific
subsets of contiguous muscle fibers in mutually exclusive regions (Westerfield et al.
1986), which could also occur with the two types of bonito motoneurons. However, to
determine if either of these possibilities are plausible, more detailed experiments would be
needed to determine if this is the case. If Type A and Type B motoneurons corresponded
to the primary and secondary motoneurons identified in zebrafish, they could be activated
differently dependent on the swimming mode as was demonstrated in the zebrafish for fast
and slow swimming (Liu and Westerfield, 1987) or act synchronously as in the zebrafish
escape response (Fetcho and O'Malley, 1995).
The number of motoneurons we visualized throughout the larval period was greater
than the 3 primary motoneurons identified in the zebrafish (Myers et al., 1986; Westerfield
et al., 1986). All of the motoneurons that were seen may not have been primary
motoneurons, nor were we able to identify specific motoneurons and track their
development, so a direct comparison cannot be drawn to the zebrafish. It does seem,
however, that motoneuron development is occurring more rapidly in the bonito than in the
zebrafish.
The development of cell body tiers (Fig. 8) throughout Stages 1 through 4 seemed
to begin with a single tier in Stage 1 which expanded to two tiers seen in early Stage 3.
The third tier of cells in mid Stage 3, which consisted of Type B cells, may correspond to
innervation of motoneurons into different muscle groups. This could result in the finer
