EMG Recordings
EMG recordings were obtained using a tungsten microelectrode approximately
1 um in diameter. The signal was fed through an amplifier with a gain of 10000 and a
1 kHz filter and then digitized using a Sony DAT Recorder (670). Analysis of the EMGs
was performed using Dempster software. The fish were placed in a drop of agarose in a
small petri-dish of distilled water and then penetrated with the electrode. They were also
viewed through a light microscope for movements which could be correlated with EMG
recordings.
Results
Staging
Bonito development was broken down into seven stages. In Stage 1, the Yolk-Sac
stage, the fish were characterized by lack of eye pigments, a transparent head, and an
internalized oil droplet in a large yolk-sac (Fig. 3A). Stage 1 encompassed day O (day of
fertilization) to 2 dpf. In Stage 2, the Eye Pigment stage, the fish developed retinal
epithelium pigments by 3 dpf, proto-pectoral fins, and by 4 dpf, a functioning jaw (Fig.
3B). Stage 2 ranged from 3 dpf to 5 dpf. During Stage 3, the Predator stage, the bonito
began feeding on artemia, giving them an orange gut by late 5 dpf. Yellow and black spots
appeared on the skin, and teeth appeared at 6 dpf. Stage 3 included 5 dpf to 9 dpf (Fig.
30). Morphological changes during Stage 4, the Constant Swimmer stage, included
increased definition of trunk structure, spots on the skin covering the head and gut,
development of cartilage or bone in the head, greater definition in the nasal area, and clear
myotome definition by 11 dpf (Fig. 3D). Stage 4 ranged from 9 dpf to 11 dpf. Stage 5,
the Metamorphosis stage, was characterized by a 2-fold increase in total length, increased
coloration on the gut and snout, reflective eyes and gut, the appearance of a bony dorsal
fin, development of bone in the trunk, and definition of the caudal fin, muscle structure,
and nasal area (Fig. 4). Stage 5 consisted of 12 dpf. Stage 6, the Pre-Juvenile stage, was
marked by increased trunk coloration and steady growth. Stage 6 consisted of 13 dpf to 14
