moving. A fish undergoing no translation but snapping its jaw was considered inactive
while a fish undergoing no translation but flicking its tail was considered active. Each fish
was followed for the 2 minute period and the amount of time spent active was determined
using a stop watch.
Maximum body flexion was measured by observing each fish individually during a
2 minute time period when the drum was stationary. When a turn which included a large
body flexion was observed, the behavior was retraced frame by frame on the VCR and
traced onto acetate paper. Body flexion angle was measured by determining the angle
between lines drawn between the head of the fish and the tip of the tail. Fig. 2 shows
examples of tracings of fish and how the angle of flexion was determined. The smaller the
angle, the greater the flexion of the fish.
Motoneuron Dye Injections
The long-chain dialklycarbocyanine lipophilic tracer, Dil, was used at a
concentration of 2.5 mg/mL in dimethylforamamide (DMF) to visualize motoneurons. Fish
were anesthetized in ice-water before being fixed in 4% formaldehyde for 2 hours. Fixed
fish were injected with Dil using microelectrodes approximately 1 um in diameter made
from 1.5 mm capillary tubes. Fish were injected 2 to 5 times in the ventral musculature and
stored overnight in a 4°C fridge. The days 2 through 5 fish were stored in distilled water
until we noticed that the osmolarity of the distilled water differed from that of the fish and
was reducing the number of successful injections. The remaining fish were generally
stored in phosphate buffer solution (PBS), which was used to dilute the fixative and would
not disrupt osmotic balance, and occasionally kept in the 4% formaldehyde. The injections
were visualized using an Olympus fluorescence microscope at 4x, 1Ox, 20x, and 40x
magnification. Successful stains were filmed using a camera attached to the microscope
and a Sony VCR (SLV-373UC). Images of labeled motoneurons were digitized using the
Mega Vision 1024XM System v.4.3 and Adobe Photoshop 2.5.
