Stage 1 fish, possibly corresponding to the slower tail beat used in locomotion rather than a
quick burst of rapid swimming.
The bursts of electrical activity seen in early Stage 3 fish (Fig. 13, Fig. 14) were
observed immediately after head jerks. These head jerks would probably have resulted in
full body movements if the fish had not been embedded in agarose, indicating that this
swimming behavior is similar to the burst of swimming seen in the Stage 1 fish rather than
the simpler tail beat. The signals obtained from the early Stage 3 fish were more
complicated and lasted longer than the Stage 1 fish, but lower in frequency, indicating a
more sustained period swimming with more motoneurons firing. The decrease in
frequency could be due to the fact that while the Stage 1 spikes were more unitary and
easily distinguished from each other, the signal in question was more complicated and
probably consisted of multiple spikes whose individual frequencies could not be
determined.
Both the bursting pattern (Fig. 15, 16) and the slower tail beat (Fig. 17) were seen
in the mid Stage 3 fish. Again, the burst pattern consisted of more complicated signals than
the quick burst patterns seen in younger fish, but were comparable in frequency to the
signal seen in the early Stage 3 fish. The duration of the pattern varied from approximately
300 ms in one instance to 650 ms in another, possibly indicating that the fish has the ability
to regulate the length of the sustained swimming period. Variation in the duration of the
pattern is similar to studies performed on the larval angelfish (Pterophyllum scalare), where
it was shown that the duration of bursts in older fish were more variable suggesting that the
force of the tail beat could be regulated flexibly as the fish developed (Yoshida et al.,
1996). The series of action potentials in Fig. 17 most likely correspond to the slower tail
beat patter, similar to the one seen in the early Stage 2 fish. The greater number of action
potentials indicate more tail beats over a longer duration than was seen in the early Stage 2
fish. Increase in the complexity, length, and number of signal pulses with age has been
seen in both larval angelfish (Yoshida et al., 1996) and in Xenopus (Sillar et al, 1993).
