Figure Legend
Fig. 1 Rotating striped drum used in the swimming behavior experiments.
Fig. 2 (A) Method used for determining maximum body flexion. Each fish represents
is a single field at 60 Hz. Translation is not represented, only change in body
shape of the fish. One fish from each stage is represented. (B) Representation
of the angle of flexion, measured between the head and the tip of the tail.
Fig
Photos of fish from each stage. Scale bars are 1 mm. (A) Stage 1. (B) Stage 2.
(C) Stage 3. (D) Stage 4.
Fig. 4 Photos of 12 day old bonito. Scale bars are 1 mm. (A) Before metamorphosis.
(B) After metamorphosis.
Fig. 5 Scatter plot of fraction of time spent active for each fish in a two-minute period.
Boxes are means for each day with standard deviations.
Fig. 6 Scatter plot of maximum body flexion observed in a two-minute period for each
fish. Greater flexion translates into a smaller angle.
Fig.
7 Comparison of Type A and Type B motoneurons for Stages 1 and 4.
(A) Stage 1, Type A motoneuron. (B) Stage 4, Type A motoneuron.
(C Stage 1, Type B motoneuron. (D) Stage 1, Type B motoneuron.
Fig. 8 Comparison of tier development for Stages 1 through 4.
(A) Stage 1. Only one distinguishable tier. (B) early Stage 3. Two tiers of
motoneuron cells are visible, both Type A. (C mid-Stage 3. Three tiers of
motoneuron cells are visible. The third tier consists of small Type B cells.
(D) Stage 4. Tiers are no longer distinguishable from each other.
9 40x view of the third tier seen in mid-Stage 3. (A) Focus on the upper two tiers
Fig.
of cell bodies. (B) Focus on the third tier of cell bodies.
Fig. 10 Spinal cord comparison of Stage 2 and 3 fish. Rostral is to the right and ventral
is down. (A) Stage 2. The majority of motoneuron development is in the
rostral segments, with fewer motoneurons caudally. (B) early Stage 3. Caudal
motoneurons have increased in number and complexity. (C) mid Stage 3. The
number and complexity of all motoneurons has increased.
Fig. 11 Burst pattern from Stage 1. (A) Overview of the entire signal, with baseline
shown at the beginning and end. (B) Close-up of the spikes seen in the bursting
pattern.
Fig. 12 Action potentials from Stage 2.
Fig. 13 Burst pattern in an early Stage 3 fish. (A) Overview of the entire signal, with
baseline shown at the beginning and end. (B) Close-up of the spikes seen in
the bursting pattern.
Fig. 14 Burst pattern from early Stage 3 fish. Similar to the one shown in Fig. 13.
Fig. 15 Burst pattern from mid Stage 3 fish. (A) Overview of the entire signal, with
baseline shown at the beginning and end. (B) Close-up of the spikes seen in
