reached about 360 ms, preceded by a movement artifact of approximately 170 ms. The
amplitude of the spikes within the burst was fairly constant (Fig. 11).
Electrical activity generated by early Stage 2 fish consisted of two signals followed
by a movement artifact. The first signal was more complicated in nature and consisted of at
least three main spikes, all of which may contain overlapping signals. The overall signal
lasted approximately 30 ms with a frequency of 33 Hz. Individual spikes within the signal
lasted approximately 10 ms with a frequency of 100 Hz. Approximately 50 ms later, this
signal was followed by a second spike, which was simpler, consisting of a single spike
which lasted about 5 ms with a frequency of 200 Hz and had an amplitude about half that
of the first signal. The movement artifact which followed the second signal lasted about 30
ms (Fig. 12).
A more complicated swim burst pattern was seen with early Stage 3 fish. Each
spike was more complicated in structure, appearing to consist of a primary and secondary
spike which overlapped. The individual signals lasted approximately 10 ms, with a
frequency of 100 Hz. The entire duration of the pattern lasted just over 100 ms, with the
amplitudes of the spikes in a ration of 3:4:5:6. These swim burst patterns were correlated
with head movements (Fig. 13, Fig. 14).
Swim bursts recorded from middle Stage 3 fish were variable in duration, lasting
300 to 650 ms. The first swim burst pattern was also more complicated, consisting of two
consecutive spikes which were repeated approximately 50 ms after the previous spikes
ended. The first of the two spikes was larger and relatively unitary in appearance. The
second spike was only about half the amplitude of the first spike, but more complicated,
appearing to consist of two overlapping signals. Each event lasted approximately 10 ms,
with a frequency of 100 Hz. The entire duration of the burst was approximately 650 ms
(Fig. 15). The second swim burst recorded was simpler, consisting mostly of unitary
spikes, although some spikes were complicated by underlying signals. The spikes lasted
about 5 ms, had a high frequency of 200 Hz, and relative amplitudes in a 2:3:5 ratio. The
