1.9 cm wide, separated by a white stripe 2.6 cm in width, resulting in a total of 20 stripes
18° apart (Fig. 1). The drum was attached to a rotating base, controlled by a DC motor.
The speed and direction of rotation could be varied. The bottom of the drum was painted
white, with a hole in the center in which an 9 cm diameter black-bottomed petri-dish
containing the fish were placed. The fish were filmed using a Sony CCD camera mounted
above the dish. Recordings were made on a Panasonic Time Lapse Video Cassette
Recorder (6740).
Five fish were placed in the petri-dish for each swimming experiment. For days 2
through 6, each experiment lasted 2 hours. This was broken down into 12 ten-minute time
periods. The observation began with a period in which the drum was stationary, followed
by counterclockwise and clockwise rotations of the drum. The counterclockwise and
clockwise rotation periods were separated by a period in which the drum did not rotate.
The drum was rotated at three speeds in both the counterclockwise and clockwise
directions: 2 to 3°/8, 4 to 5%/, and 6 to 7°/s. Beginning with the day 7 fish, we reduced the
duration of the experiment because we noticed that the fish were becoming tired by the end
of the 2 hour period. The revised protocol lasted a total of 25 minutes and was repeated for
a total length of 50 minutes. The 25 minute period was broken down into 5 five-minute
time periods, beginning with a the stationary drum and alternated with counterclockwise
and clockwise rotations at 6 to 7%/s periods, and ending with the a period in which the drum
did not rotate.
Behavior was observed qualitatively by viewing the tapes. We also looked for
optokinetic response by counting the number of counterclockwise and clockwise turns
during each time period in the day 7 and day 8 fish. A time budget for the fraction of time
spent active for a 2 minute period was determined, as well as the maximum body flexion
that each fish exhibited during a 2 minute time period.
A time budget of activity was determined for a 2 minute time period while the drum
was stationary. A fish was considered to be active if any part of its trunk or tail was
