washed and the isolated mRNA eluted and stored at -80°C. Complementary DNA
(CDNA) was synthesized and the Az-LDH gene amplified using a Reverse
Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) procedure (Promega). LDH-A¬
specific primers were first designed using regions of agreement in barracuda (genus
Sphyraena; Holland et al. 1997) and dogfish (genus Squalus; Abad-Zapatero et al.
1987) LDH-A sequences. The 3' ends of the A4-LDH CDNA sequence were
synthesized and amplified using the 3'RACE procedure (GibcoBRL). AII CDNA
products were visualized using an ethidium-bromide stained agarose gel, and
purified using a gel extraction procedure (Qiagen). The CDNA sequence was obtained
by amplification of the purified CDNA products using a dye-labeled terminating
nucleotide protocol (Perkin-Elmer Corporation), and the amplification products
were visualized on the Applied Biosystems model 373A automated sequencer. The
resulting sequences were aligned and translated using the GCG software program
(Oxford Molecular Group).
RESULTS
Apparent Kp-PYR. Upon comparison of the two shark species, it was found that the
„PTR of the cold temperate species, P. xaniurus, was higher than that of the
Km
subtropical species, G. cirratum, at every temperature (Fig 1A). This trend is
consistent with earlier studies of temperature effects on Km in organisms adapted to
widely differing thermal environments (Yancey and Somero, 1978; Holland et al.
1997; Fields and Somero, 1997; Fields and Somero in prep.). Upon comparison of the
two ray species, however, R. bonasus, the warm-adapted species, exhibited higher
Knvalues at every temperature above 0°C when compared to the Antarctic species,
B. eatonii (Fig 1B). At 0°C, B. eatonii displayed a Km value slightly greater than that
of R. bonasus.
Amino acid sequences. There were fourteen differences among the 180 residues of
amino acid sequence obtained from the two species of rays. Of those fourteen
differences, four were non-conservative. (A non-conservative change is defined as
one in which the two residues were of different character, one being polar and one
