subtropical species (R. bonasus) is replaced by a glutamine in the Antarctic species (B.
eatonii). In the second, a glutamine at position 226 in the subtropical species is
replaced by an aspartate in the Antarctic species (Fig. 2). In both of these
substitutions, the Antarctic residue is more polar than the subtropical residue. This
increase in the polarity of the BH-alG loop has also been shown to occur in
Antarctic teleosts. Because ßH-alG forms hydrophobic interactions with the
neighboring subunit, increased polarity in this region might correspond to increased
flexibility of the monomer. This increased flexibility results when the interaction of
the loop with the neighboring monomer is reduced while interaction with the
surrounding polar solvent is increased. An increase in the flexibility of ßH-alG
might enable ease of movement of alG-a2G during catalysis. These changes should
favor a higher catalytic rate constant (kcat) for the enzyme of the Antarctic species, a
conjecture to be tested in future work with these enzymes.
In the sharks, the highest concentration of non-conservative amino acid
substitutions occurs from residue 9 to residue 21, near helix aA, in the amino
terminal arm of the Ag-LDH monomer (Fig. 3). This region of the monomer forms
polar inter-subunit interactions with the neighboring monomer (Abad-Zapatero et
al. 1987. In three of the four non-conservative changes I observed, a polar residue in
the subtropical shark was replaced by a charged residue in the cold temperate shark.
In the fourth non-conservative difference, a charged residue in the subtropical
species was replaced by a polar residue in the cold temperate species (Fig. 2). Because
I did not obtain the portion of sequence in G. cirratum which interacts with the
amino arm in neighboring monomers, it is not possible to analyze how these
changes in polarity of amino arm residues might affect the overall protein stability.
However, a single substitution at position 8 has been shown to lead to changes in
Km and thermal stability in barracuda A4-LDH (Holland et al. 1997). Therefore, it is
