and shipped on dry ice to Hopkins Marine Station by Elizabeth Clarke of the
University of Miami. P. xaniurus was collected from Monterey Bay Canyon and
donated to this study by the Monterey Bay Aquarium. R. bonasus was collected from
Tampa Bay, Florida, and sent on dry ice for the study by Joseph Torres of the
University of Southern Florida. B. eatonii was collected near Palmer Station in
Antarctica by Peter Fields of Hopkins Marine Station. All species were stored at -80°C
until use.
Determination of Km-PYR of A4-LDH
The Az-LDH of each species was purified using an agarose-oxamate affinity column
(Yancey and Somero 1978). A homogenate of the white muscle of each species was
allowed to pass down the oxamate affinity column, with NADH present in excess to
ensure efficient binding of the LDH. The LDH was eluted with pyruvate, which
binds the protein with a greater affinity than oxamate, and collected in fractions of
approximately 3ml each. The fractions were tested for LDH activity, and the active
fractions were pooled. Äfter dialysis against 50 mmol 11 potassium phosphate
buffer, pH 6.8, the purified protein was frozen at -80°C.
-PYR) was then determined
The apparent Michaelis-Menten constant of pyruvate (Km
at 0, 10, 20, and 30 degrees C for each species. The pyruvate Ky's were determined
using a Perkin Elmer Lambda 3B spectrophotometer equipped with a temperature-
controlled cell attached to a Lauda RM6 recirculating water bath. The temperature of
each cuvette was maintained at +/- 0.2°C. The reaction solutions were prepared
using an imidazole chloride buffer (160mM imidazole chloride, 300uM NADH; pH
7.0 at 20°C), which has been shown to exhibit similar pH to intracellular conditions
over a wide range of temperatures. For each Kp eight concentrations of pyruvate
were used: 0.5, 0.4, 0.3, 0.2 0.15 0.1 0.075, and 0.05 mmol 1-1. The spectrophotometer
was set to record the absorption of light with wavelength 340 nm, the wavelength at
which NADH absorbs most strongly. The decrease of [NADH] which followed the
addition of 25 ul of purified Az-LDH to the imidazole/NADH/pyruvate solution in
each cuvette was plotted against time. Conversion of absorbance to concentration
using Beer's law then yielded a series of velocities in units of change in
concentration of NADH (and thus pyruvate, as they decrease together in a 1:1 ratio)
per minute. Pyruvate concentration v. velocity data points were entered into the
Wilman computer program (1986) to calculate Kp using weighted linear regression
as outlined by Wilkinson (1961).
Sequencing of LDH-A CDNA
Messenger RNA (mRNA) was purified from each elasmobranch species using
microscopic magnetized beads (Dynabeads; Dynal, Inc.). 25-mers of poly¬
deoxythymidylate (poly-T) attached to the beads bound to the poly-adenylate tails of
the mRNA in a white muscle homogenate from each species. The beads were then
