Page 3
Adaptation to Anaerobiosis in Tigriopus californicus
light, salinity and temperature, respectively, as constants. The variables
of the set-up were the amount of Tigriopus sequestered for each run and the
lenth of anoxia each group experienced. Anoxic periods had been chosen short
enough to avoid signifigant mortality.
Tigriopus to be used for standard oxygen depletion runs were strained
from the aquarium stock and placed in one liter of ambient temperature sea¬
water. Within ten minutes these animals passed through a strainer, to be
caught and subsequently rinsed into the experimental chamber with saturated
water. The oxygen probe had to be immediately inserted without trapping any
bubbles. Any trapped air was expelled upon seating of the rubber seal about
the probe.
As oxygen disappeared the percent of saturation fell resulting in a
smooth depletion curve being generated. Upon reaching 0% saturation the
Tigriopus remained anoxic for varied lengths of time while the water circu¬
lated in the chamber. Time spent at 0% saturation is considered as the
anoxic time. Re-introduction of the animals to saturated water terminated
anoxia and immediately post-anoxic depletion curves were generated.
Calibration of the oxygen electrode monitored over similar time courses
saw a total drift for the 100% and 0% line of only 2%. The absolute amount
of oxygen in the water was found by extrapolating out from literature data
(Harvey, 1955) for seawater at a salinity of 36 parts per thousand. Tigrio¬
pus dry weights could be determined after the post anoxic curve was record¬
ed. The animals were dried at 90 C in a petri dish, then dislodged, collec¬
ted and re-dried. The balance used was a Mettler accurate to 0.0001 grams.
Oxygen consumption rates were calculated by placing the best straight
line through linear or near linear sections of the consumption curves and
then determining the slope, which is the average rate of the period looked
10/t-t.
K.
at. Q's could be found by applying the formula: 910
K.
