Figures
Fig. 1) A. Gonad mass compared to curved length of captive female yellowfin tuna held
at 20°C. B. Gonad mass compared to curved length of captive male yellowfin tuna held
at 20°C.
Fig. 2) Gonosomatic indices for captive male yellowfin (A) and captive female yellowfin
(B) plotted against curved length with linear trend line added.
Fig. 3) Gonosomatic indices for captive male bonito (A) and captive female bonito (B)
plotted against curved length with linear trend line added
Fig. 4) Various stages of oocyte development found simultaneously in a bluefin tuna
ovary. A. Unyolked (a) stage of oocyte development. Bar - 0.1 mm. B. Slightly more
advanced stage (a) of unyolked oocyte prior to yolk development. Bar - 0.1 mm. C.
Early yolked (a) stage of oocyte development. Red granules represent yolk, white
represents lipid globules. Development of the vitelline envelope is also apparent. Bar-
0.1 mm. D. Advanced yolk (a) stage. Bar - 0.1 mm. E. Unovulated yolked oocyte in
the alpha stage of atresia (a). Bar - 0.1 mm. F. Vitellogenic oocyte (a) occurring with
oocyte in the beta stage of atresia (b). Bar - 0.1 mm.
Fig. 5) A. Immature ovary from a small yellowfin tuna (64.5 cm) at the TRCC, with a
high percentage of somatic tissue (a), and all small unyolked oocytes (b). Bar - 0.1 mm.
B. Mature, inactive ovary from a large captive yellowfin (105.5 cm), with larger
unyolked oocytes (a), and a small degree of incidental atresia (b). Bar - 0.1 mm.
C. Sexually active ovary from a giant bluefin (217 cm)with multiple stages of oocyte
development present simultaneously. Unyolked (a), Early yolked (b), Advanced yolked
(c), Alpha atresia (d), and Beta atresia (e). Bar - 0.1 mm.
Fig. 6) A. Hydrated oocyte found in female bonito with the highest GSI. Indicates
imminent spawning. Bar -O.1 mm. B. Female bluefin from the Florida Straits with
advanced yolked oocytes (a). Represents first histological evidence of bluefin sexual
activity outside of the Gulf of Mexico. Photograph taken at same power magnification as
above (A).
Fig. 7) A. Cross section of lobules in an immature testis with thin, lightly stained walls
(a), lumen devoid of spermatozoa (b), and high percentage of somatic tissue. Found in a
small yellowfin (61 cm). Bar - 0.1 mm. B. Cross section of lobules in a mature,
sexually inactive testis, from a giant bluefin (220 cm) in New England, also with lightly
staining walls (a) and empty lumen (b). Bar - 0.1 mm. C. Cross section of lobules in a
mature, sexually active testis taken from a bonito with high GSI. Dark staining walls
with various stages of spermiogenesis (a) and lumen packed with spermatozoa (b).
Fig. 8) Size and sex distributions of wild bluefin sampled for this study according to
region. New England (A), North Carolina or Mid Atlantic Bight (B), and Gulf of Mexico
and Florida Straits (C).
