VI. Figure Legends:
Figure 1. Daily Mortality Count. This chart details the mortalities in Group two and
Group three squid. The feeding regimen for both groups of squid is indicated by
the horizontal bars directly beneath the X-axis. Note the dramatic increase in
mortality in Group three after the switch to a copepod diet on day 40.
Figure 2. The Basic Attack Sequence. Squid utilized this most general strategy, the first
to be observed in the youngest squid, in attacks on both copepods and Artemia
nauplii.
Figure 3. "Circling" Behavior. Before lunging at the prey item, squid often maneuvered
angularly to obtain position in front of the copepod prey. As the squid
repositioned itself in response to the copepod's escapes, its overall motion appeared
circular.
Figuie 4. Successful Copepod Attacks Grouped by Age. This scatter plot shows the
distribution of successful copepod captures by Group two squid along axes of total
attack distance and peak attack speed. Note the correlation between total attack
distance and peak attack speed, as revealed by the distribution of points along the
45 degree line.
Figure 5A. Successful and Unsuccessful Attacks by the Youngest Squid.
5B. Successful and Unsuccessful Attacks by the Intermediate-Aged Squid.
5C. Successful and Unsuccessful Attacks by the Oldest Squid.
A comparison of these scatter plots reveals that, with age, the distribution of
attacks on copepods is shifted towards shorter distances and lower speeds. Note,
once again, the apparent correlation between attack distance and attack speed in
both successful and unsuccessful attacks.
Figure 6A. Successful Captures, Group 2, Days 15-23.
6B. Successful Captures, Group 2, Days 26-35.
6C. Successful Captures, Group 2, Days 41-42.
These histograms of successful captures reflect the changing character of successful
copepod captures. Refinements in strategy allow the intermediate-aged squid to
expand their effective copepod capture range, and also facilitate captures by the
oldest squid from shorter distances.
Figure 7A. Unsuccessful Attacks, Group 2, Days 15-21.
7B. Unsuccessful Attacks, Group 2, Day 33.
7C. Unsuccessful Attacks, Group 2, Day 42.
These histograms depict the attack distance distributions in unsuccessful attacks.
The upper range of attack distances present in days 15-21 squid has almost
completely disappeared in the older squid.
20
