Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 34
THE VELIGER
NUMBER OF SNAILS /M
400
MEAN SIZE (MM.)
300
200
NUMBERS
100
SIZE
13


25
20
METERS FROM 6 FT. TIDE LEVEL
4 HEIGHT (FT.)
ROCKS
ROCK
ROCKS AND
ROCKS
SANOT SACHE
SAND
ROCKS AND
SAND
Endocladio
Gigartino
Ralfsia
48796oaooaooo
% Tegula funebrolis with Acmoea asmi
Figure 4: Distribution in numbers and size classes of Tegula funebralis in Area E
(*sandy beach extends shoreward eleven meters to the plus six foot level)
channel. At high tide a moderate current runs through
moved down; all snails moved down at the first light of
this channel. This population was plotted for fourteen
dawn. On nights of heavy wave surge the numbers on
days. After the first fourteen day study was completed.
the rock tops were one tenth those normally found on the
Population III was placed in the current channel at the
rocks for dark nights. This vertical movement was noted
minus one foot tidal level, directly out from the point of
at many places along Mussel Point.
its original placement and was found after five days to
Population V (two groups, one taken from the zero to
have dispersed much as on the fifth day of the first period
plus one foot level and the other from the plus four to
(Fig. 9).
five foot level) was marked and placed at the plus two
Population IV, clustered under three rocks at the plus
foot level in a crevice of a rock outcrop. The rocks extend
four foot tidal level, was marked and its vertical move¬
from a sandy substrate at zero feet to plus seven feet. The
ment was followed during rising and falling tides over
two groups, plotted for fourteen days, showed no vertical
periods of 24 hours. During daylight hours at high tide,
or horizontal separation. However, sixteen individuals
the population remained beneath the rocks with individ¬
were found beyond four meters down current and only
uals rarely on rock tops. At night during high tides the
nine beyond this distance up current.
population moved to the rock tops in large numbers. They
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
moved up as soon after twilight as the tide permitted, in
numbers dependent on the intensity of the moonlight.
(Movement)
On bright moonlit nights the density on rock tops was
Tegula funebralis moves up to rock tops during the night
half that found during dark overcast nights. During the
high tide, but not during the daylight high tides. The
low tide periods at night about four-fifths of the snails
