Page 31
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
resulted in an overall movement pattern which, when com-
affect the distribution were then checked by exposing
pared with that of other populations, gave information on
marked populations to these various conditions and ob¬
the effectiveness of certain factors in influencing popula-
serving the movements of the snails.
tion distribution.
METHODOLOGY
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
We selected five areas along Mussel Point, each, as de-
Area A is a rocky, open coastline with a heavy algal
scribed below, representing a different environmental con-
covering. It has no current movement though the outer
dition. In each area we marked the exact water level at
rocks facing seawards receive heavy wave action.
low tide on a very calm day to give correlatable marks,
Area B is a rocky, open coastline without an algal cover-
whose height was then determined by use of existing
ing. It has no current movement though the entire profile
benchmarks. At low tide a transect two meters wide was
receives the heaviest wave action of all five areas. Mussels
extended from shore to the minus two foot tide level in
and barnacles almost entirely cover the rock surfaces below
each area, and every Tegula funebralis within the transect
was counted and measured for the largest basal diameter
the plus three foot tidal level, and all Tegula funebralis
are found among these animals.
of the shell from the lip to the edge of the opposite side.
Area C is a semi-protected area with a heavy algal cover-
In order to investigate the movement patterns of Tegula
ing. The area has a light current flowing through it with a
funebralis, we put marked populations into areas which
best represented the factor being tested and compared
moderate wave surge.
Area D is a semi-protected area with a heavy algal cov¬
their movements with the movements of control groups ir
ering. There is usually a moderate current flowing through
areas where the factor did not exist. A periodic positior
it with a moderate wave surge, although the inner third
plot of the individuals within the population over time
NUMBER OF SNAILS /ME
MEAN SIZE (MM.)
1000
(1400)
800
22
SIZE
600
400
200
NUMBERS



METERS FROM 6 FT. TIDE LEVEL
HEIGHT (FT.)
2
Rock
YSHELL FRAGMENTS
ROCKS
ROCKS AND SHELL FRAGMENTS
Endoclodig
Gigartino
2(-) -
Rolfsio
Iridaea
—
—Lithothamnion
94 00
02000
% Tegulo funebralis with Acmoeo asmi
Figure 1: Distribution in numbers and size classes of Tegula funebralis in Area A
