Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 33
THE VELIGER
MEAN SIZE (MM.) 25
[NUMBER OF SNAILS /ME
SIZE
300
200
NUMBERS

25
METERS FROM 6FT. TIDE LEVEL
HEIGHT (FT.)
PROCK OUTCROP
ROCKS AND SHELL
2 SAND LARGE ROCKS FRAGMENTS
Felvetia
o  Endoclodio
Endocladig
Gigartina
—
—Rolfsio
2(-)
Tridgea
—
Lithothamnion
0 40
40 40 40
% Tegula funebrolis with Acmded asmi
Figure 3: Distribution in numbers and size classes of Tegula funebralis in Area C
populated, while similar areas closer to shore in calmer
decreases with increase in the vertical height along the
water have higher densities of snails (Fig. 3).
transects with the largest snails rarely found at the sea¬
Vertical height clearly affects the population density
ward edge of the transect (Fig. 7).
quite aside from the maximum height of zero feet and
POPULATION MOVEMENTS
plus six feet (Fig. 8). Between these limits similar
heights in different places show different numbers of in-
Population I (marked in the size classes 0-15 mm, 15-20
dividuals as found in Area A between seven and sixteen
mm, and over 20 mm), was placed in Area D on outer
meters from shore (Fig. 1), in Area C between eleven
rocks at the plus two foot tidal level. Water at high tide
and twenty-five meters (Fig. 3), and in Area D (Fig. 5)
was turbulent with little current movement. This popula¬
Different vertical heights having similar population den¬
tion was plotted for fifteen days (Fig. 9).
sities are found in Area C twelve and twenty-seven meters
Population II (marked as in Population I), was placed
from shore, in area D between forty-two and fifty-four
in Area D on inner rocks at the plus three foot tidal
meters, and in Area D between forty-two and fifty-four
level. Water at high tide was calm without current move-
meters, and in Area E between five and nine meters (Fig
ment. This population was plotted for 19 days (Fig. 9),
4). The greatest population density is at the plus two to
Population III was placed in Area D at the plus three
four foot tidal level (Fig. 8). The mean size of animals
foot tidal level on an outer rock face bordering the current
