Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Page 32
NUMBER OF SNAILS /ME
MEAN SIZE (MM.) 221
300
200
S12E
100
NUMBER



—10
METERS FROM 6 FT. TIDE LEVEL
HEIGHT (FT.)
LARGE ROCKS
LONG ROCKY CREVICE
ROCKY POOL
Ralfsia
Lithothamnion
ooooo-
% Tegula funebralis with Acmaea asmi
Figure 2: Distribution in numbers and size classes of Tegula funebralis in Area B
of this profile has relatively quiet water.
pends to some extent on the amount of open rock surface
Area E is a protected area with a sparse algal covering.
available. Rocky areas which have little algal covering
have a larger number of snails on them than a heavily cov¬
It has no current movement and little wave surge. Pools
in this area are very crowded at low tide and some of the
ered rocky area. The reason for this distribution may be
Tegula funebralis move about on the fine sand bottom of
that rock surfaces provide the main food source for their
the pools. Only in these pools were the snails found to be
grazing. Two notable exceptions are found, one in Area C
grazing on dead algae, periodically cast up at high tide.
at the twenty-eight meter mark (Fig. 3) where outer rocks
In all five areas Tegula tends to be clumped in places
are washed by heavy surge, reducing the density of snails
that have a sparse algal covering and usually is dispersed
in this area, and the other in Area D at the fifteen meter
in areas of dense coverage.
mark (Fig. 5) where a shell fragment substrate decreases
the population density.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
The mean size of the animals increases with the degree
(Distribution)
of algal covering. The larger snails are found in the heavy
algal covering more often than in protected crevices.
THE COLLECTING of Tegula funebralis was done at low
Moderate current does not affect the Tegula funebralis
tide; small irregularities in population numbers due to sub¬
distribution, as the higher densities found along rock faces
strate irregularities smooth out at high tide when the
bordering the channel in Area D at thirty-eight meters
snails disperse from their clumps in the crevices. In plotting
are similar to the densities found shoreward at four meters
their distribution in relation to certain environmental
in quiet water (Fig. 5).
factors, we found relationships which indicate that certain
Population densities are reduced in areas of heavy wa¬
biological and physical factors may control population
ter turbulence. Area B with its heavy surf is relatively
distribution.
barren of Tegula funebralis (Fig. 2). The outer rocks in
The population density decreases as the amount of algal
Area C which receive heavy wave action are also sparsely
covering increases, indicating that population density de¬
