FIGURE LEGENDS:
Fig. 1. Diagram of venom apparatus of a typical cone snail. Modified from Marshall,
et al. (in press)
Fig. 2. Diagram of experimental set-up. Tooth was inserted into a clear plastic tubing
Tip of tubing was sealed with epoxy (yellow). Tooth was connected to a
microinjector apparatus that pumps blue fluid into the tooth. Blue fluid flows out of
the tooth and into a capillary tubing filled with clear distilled water. Set-up was
connected to a pressure transducer that was also connected to an oscilloscope.
Experiments were filmed using a color video camera (not shown).
Fig. 3. Graph of pressure transducer calibration.
Fig. 4. Diagram of video measurements. Measurements were made after every 3
frames (100 ms). Length of fluid released into the capillary tube filled with distilled
water was measured. Calibration of fluid volume in the capillary tubing enabled us to
determine how much volume was being released at each frame. See text for additional
details.
Fig. 5. Schematic diagram of milking procedure of C. striatus.
Fig. 6. Schematic diagram of a radular tooth from C. striatus. Not to scale.
Fig. 7. Scanning electron micrograph of adapical opening of the radular tooth from C.
striatus with ligament attached.
Fig. 8. Scanning electron micrograph of apical end of the radular tooth from C.
striatus.
Fig. 9. Scanning electron micrograph of barbed aperture of the radular tooth from C.
striatus. Second opening is presumed to be at an unspecified location within the
boxed region. Possible locations include the tip of the barbed aperture itself or an
opening located at the shaft of the tooth beneath the barbed aperture.
Fig. 10a. Graph of total volumes ejected as pressure applied with 100 ms pulses was
varied for teeth with and without ligament.
Fig. 1Ob. Graph of incremental volume ejected per 100 ms with an applied pressure of
400 hPa in teeth with and without ligament. Duration of pressure was 100 ms.
Fig. 11a. Pressure transients in a tooth with ligament as pressure was applied at 200
hPa, 400 hPa, and 800 hPa. Duration of pulse was 100 ms.
14
