C
-4.
are averages of twenty measurements.) (Fig. 2c) The work of Ciselin (1964,
unpublished) suggests that the capsule may be a mucus-like substance composed of
galactogen and some protein. The entire spaun mass is arranged in a spiralling
configuration composed of from one to two rings.
Each L. scutulata spaun contains from two to three times as many eggs as the
individual spawn of L. planaxis. The capsules are arranged in a similar fashion,
except that there are from three to five rings in the spiral configuration. In all
other respects, the egg masses of L. planaxis and L. scutulata are identical. This
casts some doubt on previous observations that each transparent capsule contained
as many as eight developing snails (Glynn, 1963), for none of the L. scutulats
capsules observed in this study contained more than one egg.
In the field and in the laboratory, the freshly laid egg masses were often
observed floating on the surface of the water. Gaseous bubbles held by surface
tension to the surface of the mucus matrix were found to be responsible for this
buoyancy. These bubbles, presumably originating from the gas within the mantle
cavity of the snail, were not observed on the matrix surfaces of submerged spauns.
In any case, the mucus matrix began to break up within one day, at which time the
liberated capsules sank and continued development below the surface of the water.
The sequence of development was followed in the laboratory for L. planaxis
embryos. Rates of development were compared for eggs kept at 25 degrees C., at
room temperature (15.8 - 21.5 degrees C.) and at sea water temperature (11.0 -
14.0 degrees C.). (Fig. 3) Discrepancies in the rates of development for eggs
at room temperature and for eggs at sea vater temperature are attributed to fluc¬
tuations in the range of temperatures obtaining under these two conditions.
Like most molluscs, the L. planaxis egg is holoblastic and cleavage is of
spiral type. The first two divisions are meridional and result in four blastomeres
of approximately equal size. The third division is horizontal and results
15
