SOME ASPECTS OF SPAMNING BENAVIOR AND DEVELOPMENT IN LITTORINA PLANAXIS
AND LITTORINA SCUTULATA
Heretofore, observations on the spawning and development of the internally
fertilizing intertidal snails, L. planaxis and L. scutulata, have been limited to
studies conducted by Hewatt (1938) and by Glynn (1963). Recent observations at
Hopkins Marine Station on the central California coast further elucidate the
reproductive biology of these littorines. These studies, conducted in the lab¬
oratory and in the field in the period April 21 to May 29, 1964, shed some light
on spauning behavior and suggest relationships between development and ecological
conditions pertaining to these two species.
L. planaxis and L. scutulata are oviparous, and females of both species have
been observed to lay eggs in the field and in the laboratory. The egg mass is
extruded from beneath the right side of the mantle cavity in the region of the
genital pore. Females have been seen in various postures during the egg laying
process - alone or when paired with a male, while crawling or quiescent - and in
all cases have been attached to their substrate by the foot. In one instance, a
female discharged eggs while a male was attempting copulation. In the field, egg
laying snails were observed on vertical and horizontal rock surfaces, at the air-
water interfaces of tide and splash pools, and beneath the water surfaces of these
pools.
Field observations coupled with laboratory efforts suggest that there are at
least three factors which may induce egg laying. These are 1) changes in light
intensity, 2) physical disturbances, and 3) moisture shock.
In the field, the greatest number of egg masses were located in tide pools and
splash pools during the hours corresponding to daun and dusk. In two separate
instances, fifteen (15) and twenty-four (24) egg masses were layed at 6:00 A.M. and
7:00 A.M., respectively. On three other occasions, one (1), five (5), and thirty-
five (35) egg masses were discharged between the hours of 8:00 P.M. and
