- 2 .
8:15 P.M. (Fig. la) In the laboratory, efforts to induce egg laying by means
of changes in light intensity met with success on only one occssion. In this
instance, five females were placed in a finger-boul of sea water and were kept
in a dark room for a period of fifteen (15) hours. One hour after exposure to
sunlight, one female discharged an egg mass.
The effect of physical disturbance on laying behavior was suggested by the
fact that in several instances, females extruded their egg masses on dry surfaces
at various hours during the day and night just after having been brought to the
laboratory from the field. Also, agitation of the water in which snails were kept
was followed by the extrusion of egg masses in two instances, after periods of
fifteen (15) minutes and tuo (2) hours.
Moisture shock appears to be the most effective stimulus to egg laying.
In the field, the only recorded instances of egg laying on vertical or horizontal
rock surfaces isolated from pools were noted during or just after subjection to
wave action (Table I). Figure lb suggests a very slight correlation between
incidence of egg laying and subjection of the snails to wave action from the rising
tide. In addition, forty (40) of the eighty-three (83) egg masses observed in the
field were found on the morning of May 6. Twenty-five (25) of these egg masses
were located in high splash pools which were not reached by wave action but which
were affected by a rainstorm which occurred during the night. In the laboratory,
moisture shock was utilized as a reliable stimulus to egg laying. On numerous
occasions, eggs were obtained from females which had been sprayed with sea water
from a tap. Upon subjection to this moisture shock, egg were extruded after
periods ranging from five (5) minutes to just over two (2) hours.
Individual females were never observed to discharge more than one egg mass
after copulation. Many females were kept in the laboratory after having deposited
a single spawn. These individuals were subjected periodically to sudden changes
