152
3
in light conditions, agitation, and moisture shock, but even after two weeks,
further deposition of spaun was not exhibited.
The egg laying behavior of these littorines, both in the field and in the lab¬
oratory, was conspicuous for its synchronous nature. That is, egg masses fron groups
of females in close proximity to each other on the substrate, or living in the
same rock pool, were often deposited over a period of time not exceeding one hour.
This was established by noting that eggs from the several masses were at the same
stage of development at any one time. In the laboratory, the deposition of eggs
by one individual seemed to affect other individuals in the same finger-bol,
causing them to spawn. This apparent synchrony of egg laying suggests the possi¬
bility of some sort of ectohormonal activity. A more likely possibility is that,
after copulation, the female will delay the egg laying process until such time as
favorable conditions prevail. Spawning stimuli are likely to affect many individuals
occupying similar environments, thus causing the phenomenon of synchrony. Keeping
females in isolation after copulation indicated that the egg laying process may be
delayed for as long as three (3) days.
When freshly laid, the L. planaxis egg mass contains an average of 1200 -
1300 eggs, although spaun masses with as few as 700 and as many as 2000 eggs have
been counted. The composition of the spawn is similar to that described for
L. neritoides by Fretter and Graham (1962). The eggs are enclosed individually in
saucer shaped capsules (one egg per capsule). The capsules, in turn, are held toge¬
ther in a mucus matrix, and are oriented such that they are stacked one on top
of the other (Figs 2a, 2b). The developing eggs average 77 microns in diameter
(range - 70 to 84 microns), are spherical in shape, and of a pinkish hue. Each egg,
with a surrounding store of albumen which is retained by a membrane, is enclosed in
a raised bulge which accomodates the developing embryo in the center of a transparent
capsule averaging 349 microns in diameter (range - 340 to 364 microns). (Dimensions
