C
.
in an eight celled stage of four mieromeres and four macromeres. Drauings of
subsequent stages are presented in Figure 2.
Hatching occurs from tuo (2) to eight-and-three-quarters (8 3/4) days after
spawning. The nearly incessant ciliary movement of the encapsulated embryo just
before hatching seems to assist the larva in its struggle to escape confinement.
The larvae vacate their capsules through the ruptured wall of the raised bulge in
the center of the capsule. The studies by Linke (1933) on L. littorea, as cited
by Fretter and Graham (1962), indicate that osmotic pressure within the capsule
may be partly responsible for the break in the wall.
L. Planaxis and L. scutulata hatch as free-swimming post-torsional veliger
larvae. There are no grossly obvious characteristics which help to distinguish one
from the other. The most obvious morphological structures visible under the micro-
scope are a bilobed velum ringed with cilia, a shell, an operculum and a slightly
developed foot. Thus, Hewatt's identification of trochophores belonging to the
species L. planaxis appears to be erroneous (Hewatt, 1938).
The pelagic veligers swim about by means of ciliary movement. The natural
positions when swimming is with the bilobed velum and foot above and the shell below.
Slight agitation of the water seems to have no effect upon their swimming movements,
which appear to be random. If, while swimming, the larvae encounter any objects
or surfaces, they immediately cease ciliary movement and sink to the bottom. They
resume swimming momentarily. If a veliger is resting on the bottom, it can be
made to retract completely into its shell by tapping on the microscope stage. The
veligers of L. planaxis and L. scutulata have been kept alive for up to eight days
after hatching without indications of settling. The foot of the larva, even after
eight days of pelagic life, appears unsuited as yet to the assumption of a benthic
existence. Presumably, the pelagic life of these two species lasts considerably
longer than eight days.
151
