Animals: The experimental subjects included six cuttlefish, Sepia officinalis, (dorsal
mantle length ranging from 2-7 cm) provided by the National Center of Cephalopods,
Galveston, Texas and a large male cuttlefish (mantle length 23 cm) provided by the
Monterey Bay Aquarium.
Scanning Electron Microscopy: For SEM, one animal (20 mm mantle length) was pinned
with a fine, insulated insect needle in a petri dish and fixed in 2% OsOA (Zetterquist buffer,
pH 7.4) for 1 hour at 4°C. After fixation, the tissue was dehydrated in graded ethanol
solutions, critical point dried in a Balzers CPD 020 unit, gold/palladium coated with a
Hummer Il sputter unit (Technics, Alexandria, Virginia, USA), and viewed with a Hitachi
S240 scanning electron microscope (Pacific Grove, California, USA).
Behavioral Response Testing: In order to determine the frequencies at which cuttlefish are
most responsive, a Lubell Model 98 hydrophone transmitter was lowered into a large
circular tank (180 cm diameter, 57 cm deep, 12'C) along with a hydrophone receiver. As
depicted in Figure 2A, bursts of sinusoidal signals produced by a B+K Precision 3020
Sweep/ Function Generator and amplified by a linear power amplifier were used to drive
the submerged hydrophone. Both the stimulus sine wave and the output from the
underwater hydrophone receiver were inputted into a Hitachi VC-6025 digital storage
oscilloscope for sampling and comparison. The hydrophone output was also directly
recorded onto videotape with a Canon Al Digital 8 mm video camera used for filming
behavioral responses (shutter speed of 1/60th of a second).
Frequencies ranging from 9-20,000 Hz were tested and behavioral responses of the
large cuttlefish were recorded. The hydrophone produced short bursts of sound 1.15
seconds in length which occurred approximately every 2 seconds. Since adaptation to
particular tones was found to rapidly occur, frequencies were varied quite often. An
alteration in behavior upon onset of the tone was considered a behavioral response. Since
the hydrophone was suspended by a rope, reaction to the sound was assumed to result
from fluid motion rather than tank vibration.
