benavioral response occurred. Changes in the rate of fin beating was seen most frequently,
in 51 percent of the observations.
The second conditioning experiment was more complex and required the cuttlefish
to not only associate the sound with a reward (crab), but also to complete a task in order to
obtain the reward. The task was considered to be successfully completed only if the
cuttlefish displayed preparatory behavior by moving behind the barrier before the crab was
introduced. To discount the possibility of reaction towards other stimuli (including
vibration caused by the entrance of the crab into the water, chemical stimuli, etc.), trials in
which such movement occurred after the crab was dropped into the tube were not
considered successes. Figure 6 shows that the cuttlefish became fairly competent in
obtaining the crabs early in the training period. This was accomplished by either moving
around the barrier after the crab was presented or waiting until the crab had moved into
view in the main tank compartment. Successful task completion did not occur until the
fourteenth trial, but occurred rather frequently thereafter (7 out of 19 trials)
Discussion:
Despite testing over a wide range of frequencies between 9 and 20,000 Hz at
amplitudes up to 8.5 V, no responses of any kind were seen above 10,000 Hz, and
responses above 5,500 Hz were rare. This indicates that, while the hearing range is
broader than previously known (Packard et al. 1990), the highest occurrence of responses
occurred at relatively low frequencies. In humans, sensitivity is much greater for
frequencies that correspond to the human voice (approximately 1000 Hz). Similarly, in
cuttlefish, there may be an adaptive value of hearing low frequencies characteristic of prey
or predator tail beats or other sounds associated with movement. In addition, sensitivity to
low frequencies could be useful for communication. Plainfin midshipman fish, Porichthys
notatus, produce low frequency sounds by contraction of the intrinsic muscles of the
swimbladder (Cohen and Winn 1967). A specific frequency range of 98-108 Hz has been
shown to elicit male-searching behavior in gravid females (Ibara et al. 1988), indicating
