Abstract:
The ability of cephalopods to hear has been controversial for some time (Moynihan
1985; Budelmann and Hanlon 1987). However, the organs specialized to detect tiny water
vibrations characteristic of sound have been identified (Budelmann 1992), and experiments
have been successful in showing that cuttlefish, Sepia officinalis, have the ability to
associate low frequency sounds (below 100 Hz) with negative stimuli such as electric
shock (Packard et al. 1990). In the following experiments, it was determined that
cuttlefish can hear within a frequency range of 9 Hz to 9260 Hz, and that cuttlefish possess
the ability to complete a complex task, combining the cognitive ability to associate a sound
stimuli with the presentation of food.
Introduction:
Sound is generally defined as the transmission of mechanical vibrations through an
elastic medium. In an aqueous environment, such acoustic energy results in rhythmic
waves of compression and rarefaction of water molecules, as well as, particle displacement
near the source (Kinne 1975). For cephalopods, perception of sound in the form of
hearing has been a controversial subject (Moynihan 1985; Budelmann and Hanlon 1987).
in part due to the difficulty in distinguishing between behavioral responses resulting from
tactile vibration and sound perception.
For mammals, the distinction is made simple by defining hearing as "the sense
modality concerned with the perception of sound entering the ears at low and moderate
intensities, as distinct from the perception of touch, vibration, and pain (Budelmann
1992). Such a definition would preclude cephalopods from having the ability to hear
since they lack the developed "ear-like" structure being cited. However, Budelmann and
Bleckmann (1988, see also Figure 1) describe the presence of epidermal lines similar to the
lateral lines of fish and aquatic amphibians. In Sepia officinalis there are eight lateral
lines" which extend from the dorsal surface of the head along the arms and contain
mechanoreceptive hair cells that detect local water displacements. Budelmann also
