displayed that even tiny water displacements (2 um peak-to-peak displacement) along the
epidermal head lines generated microphonic potentials indicating that these hair cells are
indeed involved in the detection of water vibrations. However, another possible receptor
involved in sound detection is the statocyst receptor system. Unlike the hair cells, these
receptors are internal and greatly resemble the vertebrate inner ear. Statocysts are
equilibrium receptors and can act as linear accelerometers detecting particle motion, since
the entire animal vibrates with the water column during the production of sound
(Budelmann 1992). A clear possibility is that both systems are involved.
Several experiments have been conducted in which cuttlefish are shown to have the
ability to associate sound with a stimuli. In one instance, Sepia was conditioned to the
stimulus of sound vibrations (1 to 10 Hz) followed by mild electric shock. It was shown
that an association could be made, and in later experimental sessions, fluctuations in
breathing rhythms were observed to occur upon onset of the sound, before a shock was
delivered (Packard et al. 1990).
Although it thus seems that cuttlefish can detect sound stimuli, comparatively little
work has been done testing frequencies above 200 Hz or attempting to condition cuttlefish
to make à positive association between sound and a reward, such as food. In addition.
adaptation or habituation to a particular sound occurs fairly rapidly and results in the loss of
behavioral cues that indicate to the viewer that the sound is being heard. By conditioning
the cuttlefish to associate the sound with a reward, the occurrence of a response becomes
more reliable and frequencies and amplitudes may be altered to determine threshold hearing
ranges. This paper addresses these ideas through three basic questions: (1) Within what
range of frequencies and amplitudes can cuttlefish, Sepia officinalis, hear? (2) Can Sepia
be conditioned to sound? (3) Can Sepia successfully complete a complex behavioral task
that requires a higher level of cognitive association between sound and food?
Materials and Methods:
