toward the source of sound production, fin beating in synchrony with sound pulses,
avoidance responses, and color changes.
High amplitude tones over a large frequency range were successful in eliciting
startle responses (see Figure 3), and a "threshold" level exists at an intensity of
approximately 5.5 V, above which all responses occur in connection with a startle
response. The most common reaction to such high amplitude sounds was a slight drawing
in of the tentacles, flaring of the fin, and retraction of the head.
Low amplitude signals produced startle responses only occasionally, but a variety
of continuous behavioral responses were produced, again with sounds of a wide frequency
range. An unusual reaction was produced to a stimulation of 9 Hz. On six separate
occasions, the cuttlefish turned or proceeded in the direction of the hydrophone upon
initiation of the 9 Hz tone.
Conditioning Experiments: The first conditioning experiment attempted to determine
whether Sepia would display excitatory behavior during sound production in anticipation
of food. The resulting responses are summarized in Figure 4 and correspond to the
reactions that preceeded the presentation of the crab. Color changes were the first
continuous behavioral responses to be observed and were normally seen as a darkening of
the chromatophores throughout the body or tentacles, but the incidence of color change
decreased with the number of trials. Fin beating, defined as an increase in beating rate or
beating in synchrony with the sound pulses, also was regularly displayed after
approximately 10 trials. Rotation or movement toward the tube before the introduction of a
crab increased with the number of trials. The final factor used to deduce anticipatory
behavior was the positioning in an attention posture (Messenger 1973), with two tentacles
raised. This behavior is normally seen during preparation for prey attack. It was virtually
absent during the first fifteen trials, after which its occurrence became more regular.
Figure 5 shows the percentage of trials, out of the total number of trials, in which each
