Conditioning Experiments: Two classical conditioning paradigms requiring different
cognitive capabilities were designed in order to provide an independent test of hearing
capabilities and to allow determination of threshold levels that would reliably prompt a
specific behavior.
The first conditioning experiment tested for an association between fifteen 180 Hz
pulses of sound followed by the presentation of a crab. Three cuttlefish were placed in a
plastic tank (4Ox 54 x 17 cm) with two 120 V fluorescent lights running along the sides of
the tank. A four inch loud speaker was mounted on the external surface of the back wall of
the tank; bolted and secured in place with silicon. This attachment allowed transmission of
180 Hz vibrations through the tank sides into the seawater. To control for tactile
stimulation resulting from vibration of the tank, trials in which the cuttlefish were touching
the sides or bottom of the tank were disregarded in the analysis.
Each experimental session included three trials in which fifteen 180 Hz pulses 1.15
seconds in length were followed, approximately 5 seconds later, by the presentation of a
crab through a long opaque tube. The entire set-up was enclosed by a black plastic drape
to exclude visual stimuli. Each trial was recorded on video, through remote camera
operation, and the tapes were later analyzed for behavioral responses.
The second type of conditioning experiment had the goal of determining whether
Sepia could associate a complex conditioned response with the presentation of sound.
Whereas in the previous experiment behavioral responses were used as indicators that the
sound was heard; this experiment required the cuttlefish to learn a task, associate it with a
sound, and then carry out the task upon initiation of the sound.
Two animals were used for this test. They were placed in a glass tank (SOx19x15
cm) and maintained at an approximate temperature of 14'C. A clear Plexiglas barrier was
positioned at a 45' angle to the walls in one corner partially sectioning off that corner of the
tank but allowing a passageway between the barrier and one wall (see Figure 2B). Black
plastic netting (0.8 cm mesh size) was glued on the surface of the Plexiglas to provide
