that production and reception of such sounds is essential in communication. Figure 3
displays a fairly distinct behavioral response line at 5.5 V, above which all non-startle
behavioral responses occurred in association with a startle response. Thus, an amplitude
of 5.5 V could possibly represent the threshold for physiologically relevant sound
intensities in nature, suggesting that intensities above this point are not normally
experienced. To determine whether such an assumption is true, studies would have to be
undertaken which examine the sound intensities and frequencies characteristically produced
by oceanic species.
Sepia also displayed the ability to locate the source of sound production. In the
set-up, two foreign objects, the hydrophone and the hydrophone receiver, were introduced
into the tank. On nine separate occasions, the cuttlefish displayed movement or rotation
towards the hydrophone upon initiation of sound. However, there were no similar
reactions toward the hydrophone receiver suggesting that cuttlefish can detect the
directionality of sound production and can quite accurately locate its source. In addition,
the fact that Sepia displays a particular sensitivity to low frequencies and can associate
sound with food raises the question of whether such an ability is useful during prey
capture. For this to be true, the cuttlefish would have to associate a particular frequency
with the prey. The results of this experiment clearly display that such an association is
possible. Referring once again to Figure 4, the increasing incidence of preparatory
activities such as rotation or movement toward the tube or assumption of the attention
position, with tentacles raised, indicates successful learning; associating sound with prey.
A somewhat unusual result was the decline in frequency of color changes. Since visual
color displays are used for intraspecific communication in Sepia (Tinbergen 1939), a
possible explanation for this decrease in color changes arises from the fact that the three
animals resided within one tank. There was, therefore, competition for the food since a
single crab was presented during each trial. Color changes not only indicate to the viewer
that the sound was heard, but could also conceivably arouse the interest of the other
