texture and a visual cue as to where the barrier ended. The opaque tube used for the
introduction of crabs into the tank was positioned in the comer behind the barrier. The
hydrophone used in this case was made from a four inch stereo speaker secured tightly
within a Tupperware container, and held on the surface of the water.
Initial sessions consisted of fifteen 180 Hz pulses (1.15 seconds in length) being
followed after 5 seconds with the presentation of a crab behind the barrier. During this
period, the crab could be seen through the netted barrier, so the cuttlefish could associate
the sound with the visual stimulus of food and the task of maneuvering around the barrier.
After 25 sessions it was clear that Sepia had mastered this task, and the barrier was
covered with black, opaque plastic. Any resulting movement by the Sepia around the
barrier upon initiation of the sound could, therefore, only be a result of the sound stimulus
and the learning associated with it.
Results:
Scanning Electron Microscopy: By using scanning electron microscopy to examine the
dorsal head and arm region of the cuttlefish, the epidermal head lines characterized by
Budelmann and Bleckmann (1988) were viewed. Each line consisted of a groove
containing hair cells that possessed many kinocilia (up to 12 um in length). The hair cells
did not form a continuous line; single hair cells and groups of hair cells occurred in
alternation (Sundermann 19883).
Behavioral Responses to Sound Presentation: Although a range of frequencies from 9 Hz
to 20,000 Hz was tested (limited by the capabilities of the hydrophone), responses were
only observed for frequencies between 9 and 9260 Hz. All responses were divided into
two categories; startle and non-startle behavioral responses. Startle responses include color
flashes, head retractions, or increasing fin beats and occur immediately (within 3-8 video
frames) at the onset of the first sound pulse. Non- startle behavioral responses are
distinguishable from startle responses in that the reactions are more prolonged, appear to be
controlled, and are not subject to habituation. Such responses include rotation or motion
