Foraging in Conus Californicus
Because the snails bury themselves in the sand during the day, we tagged the snails
using individually numbered flags attached with epoxy to the upper portion of their shell. The
snails were then left for 48 hours in the tanks to settle into their normal, unfed activity pattern.
Effect of tags on snail behavior was not tested but appeared to be negligible.
To determine patterns of diurnal and nocturnal activity, we made preliminary hourly
observations for 24 hours of nine unfed snails in one tank. We recorded the snail's position in
the 1 1x5 matrix and if the snail was buried, above the sand, moving, or on the tank walls.
For the 48-hour experiment, we placed 18 snails in each of two tanks and assigned them
randomly to experimental, procedural control, and control groups. The snails were left in the
tanks for 48 hours in order to settle into normal activity patterns. These snails were then
monitored every hour for a 24-hour pre-feeding period and a 24-hour post-feeding period. An
experimental group of 10 snails were fed the polychaete Eunice valens until they no longer
accepted further food. A procedural control group of 10 snails was stimulated with E. valens
until they extended their proboscides, but they were not allowed to eat. A third control group
of 14 snails, left untouched and unstimulated, never extended their proboscides or were roused
above the sand. Distance that each snail moved was estimated as the number of grid squares
crossed by that snail per hour, averaged over each time category (day, night, dusk, dawn).
To examine activity over 96 hours, we tagged and placed 18 newly captured snails in
each outdoor tank. Procedures described above were repeated except snails were fed and
stimulated with S. crassicornis. There were 11 experimentals, 10 procedural controls, and 15
controls, and we did not record a pre-feeding observation. Data from the 48-hour experiment
were statistically analyzed using data as though we had only taken readings every three hours
during the day and night. This analysis showed the same significant statistical results.
