site would assume a more compact, concentrated, less extensive vertical range of
depth distribution. Dive results do not show the average depth range of S. similis
sightings to differ between the two sites, likely because the RÖV did not extend
through the full vertical range of sergestid distribution. However, the higher value
for "vertical patchiness" density at the C4-CS site does support the above expectation.
Having a greater number of S. similis sighted over similar depth ranges of sightings
shows the population is more concentrated at the wall site and more dispersed
vertically at the H9O Column site.
Barham suggests that micronektonic midwater organisms randomly distribute
within a given horizontal substratum (1957), yet it appears this substratum is
vertically quite extensive because no significant differences in density were found
between depth increments at the H9O Column site. Although qualitatively it did
appear that the density of sergestids increased as the RÖV approached bottom, data
obtained in this study also showed no significant difference in density between
successive depth increments at the C4-CS site (except between the shallower 200-250
and 250-300 m increments) (Table 13). Ömori and Ohta (1981) simply assume in
areas such as submarine canyons that the density of migrating micronekton is much
higher near bottom in the day than in the overlying midwater. RÖV dives would
have to descend vertically directly over a certain spot on the canyon slope to better
illustrate Omori and Ohta’s assumption for the C4-C5 site.
In overall analysis, distribution by site indicates a greater abundance of S.
similis near the canyon wall as opposed to one mile from the wall. This difference in
overall average density, 4.323 as compared to 0.736 Sergs/min, is likely a result of the
bottom topography's influence on distribution. Similarity in temperature and salinity
curves at the two sites suggests hydrographic factors are not causing the difference
(Figure 3). The fact that the average density calculated for transects paralleling the
wall at 100 m from the wall was not statistically different than that for transects at the
H9O Column site appears to suggest that S. similis distribution at 100 m from the
wall is not significantly affected by the proximity of the wall. This surprising
observation is possibly the result of having a small sample size of transects for such a
patchily distributed organism. But the observation of similar densities is also
supported by the fact that all densities calculated at 90-100 m from the wall in
comparison to the densities calculated for H2O Column dives at 300-500 m are
statistically the same. This suggests that interaction with the wall takes place on an
even finer scale than 100 m.
This scale was examined with transects made perpendicular to the wall.
Although results from the perpendicular transects cannot be taken with high
confidence (due to small sample size and high variance), the quantitative results do
appear to correlate with the qualitative observations of greater density within a few
tens of meters from the wall (Figure 10). The distance increment of 0-10 m from the
wall had significantly higher density than that found for the increments 30-40 and 40-
50 m, suggesting a high degree of direct interaction takes place between S. similis and
the canyon wall. Density was found to change significantly within distance
increments of only 20 m. It would be interesting to compare this scale of horizontal
patchiness with that observed in the H2O Column transects; however, the ROV is
not yet equipped with a flowmeter to estimate distance travelled.
Behavior
