The benthopelagic region, defined as the bottom 100 m of the water column
(Wishner, 1980), is noted for its greater biomass, species diversity, and variability of
niches in comparison to the pelagic zone (Larson et al, 1991). The proximity of S.
similis to the canyon slope and wall allows it to be characterized as a "facultative
benthopelagic" organism in Monterey Bay. The three cases of highest observed
density were noted at the wall just off bottom (Table 11). Ömori and Ohta (1981)
found the highest density of the related species S. lucens also within 10 m of the
bottom during the day. Although Omori and Ohta (1981) did not note S. lucens less
than 0.5 m from the bottom, S. similis was often seen directly interacting with the
bottom and benthic organisms. Close-up observations with the RÖV documented
instances of a high number of sergestids skimming over the bottom. Although
observations made with a 25 cm screen width might suggest persistance of micro-
scale patches, it is likely that these aggregations were the result of an attraction to the
ROV's light (Appendix 5). Sergestids were also seen darting away in response to
touching many different classes of benthic organisms (Appendix 4, Table 8). The
darting "reflex", a rapid flexure of the abdomen, is a behavior first characterized by
Barham (1957) in the laboratory. Those sergestids appearing to forage among the
detritus did not exhibit this behavior.
Instances of apparent foraging as well as being captured at the benthos
suggest that S. similis plays a larger role than previously thought in the trophic
structure of the benthopelagic community. Many researchers state that S. similis is
preyed upon by rockfish, albacore, and squid off Oregon, but no mention is found of
S. similis in the diet of sea anemones and starfish (Ömori, 1974; Donaldson, 1975).
Interestingly, S. similis was found to be a large part of the diet of Apolemia uvaria, a
siphonophore found more frequently near the Monterey Canyon wall (Soohoo,
1990). Many researchers also note that over steep rises, typical members of the
midwater community may approach the bottom and become the food of
benthopelagic fishes; Pereyra (1969) notes rockfish may live in a particular area of a
canvon because diel vertical migrators caught in currents concentrate there
(Marshall & Merritt, 1977; Isaacs & Schwartzlose, 1975). Interestingly, Raymont
(1983) also states that decapods appear concentrated in strata close to rich layers of
food. In Hamner’s discussion of patchiness (1988), he defines a coincidental group
as one formed by attraction to a resource. It is possible that the S. similis patches just
off the wall may be aggregations responding to the richer food source at the wall vs.
in the more dispersed pelagic realm.
The apparent scavenging behavior of S. similis shows the benthos as a possible
source of food during the day. It is often thought that vertical migrators ascend at
night to feed; thus the majority of S. similis feeding would be expected at night
(Walters, 1976). Although most researchers report more intense feeding by night
(Renfro and Pearcy, 1966; Judkins, 1972), other Sergestes species feed well into the
day (Flock, 1989). And although often characterized as a carnivore feeding on
copepods and euphausiids (Judkins, 1972; Renfro & Pearcy, 1966), other researchers
have suggested that S. similis also plays a role as a midwater scavenger (Foxton &
Roe, 1974; Flock, 1989; Barham, 1957; Omori, 1974; Nishida, 1988). Observations of
this study suggest that sergestids may play a role as benthic scavengers also.
Observations also showed S. similis to have the propensity for forming schools
and swarms near bottom, although these were not general behaviors. Schooling,
defined as swimming with regular interindividual spacing and directional orientation
