Figure legend:
Fig. 1. The hearing-frequency ranges of different animals. (Dusenbery 1992)
Fig. 2. Scanning electron microscope pictures showing dactyl sensory hairs of different
size and morphology. (A) Large, blunt cuticular hairs which are abundant and easily
apparent to the naked eye (picture width approx. 1500 u) (B) Closer look at the junction
between a large hair and the dactyl. Smaller sensory hairs are apparent in the lower right
corner (width = 300 u) (C) Detail of a smaller sensory hair (width = 90 u)
Fig. 3. Examples of stimulus data. The bottom trace of each recording is input from the
strain gauge, and stimulus impact is marked by arrows. The top trace is the
corresponding response from the crab leg nerve. The recordings are magnified to show
100 ms of the 1000 ms recording. (A) Stimulus force applied is 0.274 * 10-5 N-m. No
response is apparent from the leg and the trial is given a binary score of 0. (B) Stimulus
force is 1.92 * 10-5 N-m and a response is clearly seen. The trial is given a score of 1
Fig. 4. Diagram of approximate response threshold range using a binary scoring
scheme. Some data points are obscured due to trials performed with the same degree of
force application. It is clear, however, that below approximately 1.4 * 10-5 N-m
responses are consistently scored as 0. Above 3.9 * 10-5 N-m they are consistently 1,
Within this interval response is variable and is, therefore, designated as the threshold
sensitivity range.
Fig. 5. (A) Leg response train to 1Ohz stimulus and corresponding autocorrelation
diagram. The arrows indicate regular bursts of action potentials phase-locked to stimulus
frequency and, therefore, occurring every 10 ms. Phase-locking is confirmed by a
significant correlation (ie. exceeds red criterion lines) at 400 lag units which corresponds
to 10 ms. (B) 50 hz stimulus. Phase-locking occurs in 20 ms intervals and is less
apparent in the response train. The correlation diagram indicates significant correlations
every 80 lag units, or 20 ms.
Fig. 6. (A) Autocorrelation data resulting from the application of 100 Hz. stimuli. If
phase-locking is occurring in the output train, significant correlations should be observed
every 40 lag points. (B) Autocorrelation data resulting from a control recording without
stimulus applied. The two traces are nearly indistinguishable indicating that phase
locking is no longer occurring at frequencies above 50 Hz.
Fig.7. Diagram of averaged normalized response to applied stimulus frequencies. High
and low amplitude stimulation at each frequency are plotted separately. The high
amplitude trace consistently exceeds that of the low. A normalized response greater than
1 indicates an increase in temporal firing rate in response to stimulus application. This is
