Studies examining this possibility have recently been undertaken by the navy and the Air
Force, both of which create a substantial amount of vibrational noise in the environment. The
navy, which often uses high amplitude acoustic signals under water, examined the frequency
sensitivity range of cetaceans, such as dolphins and whales, which rely on acoustic signals for
communication. In one such study they determined that the baleen whale vocalized from 15-
8000 Hz, well within the range of anthropogenic sources. This implied that naval activities
could interfere in the whales' communicational channels. In similar examinations, the airforce
found that aircraft noise and sonic booms could cause the masking of signals in some species and
populations of wildlife (Manci et al. 1988). In addition, airforce researchers found marked
secondary effects of environmental noise introduction on various animals, including non¬
auditory impacts such as stress, behavioral changes, mating interference and detrimental changes
in the ability to obtain food. In one such study, lab rodents and rabbits continuously exposed to
general noise from 50 Hz - 40kHz demonstrated a range of responses, from “anxiety-like"
behavior, to complex physiological effects such as increased urinary excretion of sodium and
potassium, excretion of vasopressin, and suppressed thyroid activity (Manci et al. 1988). These
studies make it clear that quantification of animal sensory sensitivity provides a valid new
framework within which to view human environmental impact.
It is with this framework in mind that this experiment was designed. The lined purple
shore crab, Pachygrapsis crassipes is a common intertidal organism along the central California
coast. Sensory hairs on its walking legs are known to function as vibrational sensors which
mediate its responsiveness to substrate-borne vibrations (Fig. 2). Numerous studies have been
performed on the vibrational sensitivity of the distantly related Uca genus, fiddler crabs, which
produce vibrational signals as a part of their mating ritual by rhythmically drumming on rocky
