In nature fractal dimension has been used to describe the complexity of plant shapes (Morse et al.
1985) and the pore/grain ratio of rocks (Wong and Howard, 1986). Studies of plants have found a positive
correlation between fractal dimension and the abundance of animals on those plants. Studies of rocks have
discovered that certain minerals have a particular fractal dimension and fractal dimension has been a useful
addition to the assessment of grain size and angularity in describing the grains of sedimentary rocks,
These findings suggest that fractal dimension could also be used to describe rocks on a biologically
relevant scale. Rocks comprise the substratum on many shores, providing the setting forthe very diverse and
productive intertidal ecosystem. A useful description of their surface topography could provide important
clues about the structure of the intertidal zone. For example, due to the pelagic nature of many larval forms
of marine life, settlement on a substratum is a crucial element of community structure and dynamics. If the
texture of the rock affects settlement, then fractals may help to provide a quantitative way of understanding
how larvae select substrata.
A second aspect of fractal dimension of rocks that could have large significance in community
ecology is due to the characteristic of exponentially increasing length with decreasing scale in fractal forms.
On a fractal surface an animal I mm long has much more surface area and volume for grazing, foraging and
escaping predators than does an animal 5 cm long; these changes in surace area and volume increase with
increasing fractal dimension. Hence a rock with a higher fractal dimension may well exhibit differences in
patterns of feeding habits and predator-prey interactions.
These issues led to three questions about the rocky intertidal zone and the biomass found there.
1)ls there a difference in the fractal dimension of different substrates (in this case, rocks)?
2)ls there a difference in the biomass of different substrates?
3)ls there a correlation between the fractal dimension of a substrate and the biomass of that same
substrate?
