MATERIALS AND METHODS
This study was divided into three parts: Imeasurement of the texture among and within three rock
types Z)calculation of the sessile biomass on these three rock types 3) testing for a correlation between the
fractal dimension of and the amount of sessile biomass,
lo measure the texture of different substrata, shape was analyzed by determining the fractal
dimensions of sandstone, granite and basalt. To measure the variation of dimension within one rock type,
three sites with an visually distinct texture were selected for that rock type. A 1O cm latex mold was taken
at each of these sites. I m of copper wire was molded to the surface at the same spot. An ink print from a
cross section of each latex mold was taken, and the resulting profile was digitized and analyzed with a
computer program designed to determine the fractal dimension. Tracings of the wire mold were digitized
and analyzed with the same program.
The fractal program determines dimension in the manner described above. It draws a box around
the outline and checks to see if there is data point in that box. The program then divides the box in half on
each side and again, counts how many boxes have a data point inside. The process is repeated; each time
another division is made the number of boxes increases to a power of 2. The dimension is determined by
plotting the natural logarithm of the number of boxes entered by the outine as a function of the natural
logarithm of the scale (length of each side) of the boxes. The fractal dimension is (-1) multiplied by the slope
of the resulting regression line. The smallest scale size was 3 mm for the 10 cm measurements(now referred
to as the 10 cm scale) and 5 cm for the 1 m measurements (now referred to as the 1 m scale).
ANOVA analysis was carried out to test for a significant difference of the means of fractal dimension
among the rock types on the 10 cm and the 1 m measurements. Another ANOVA was conducted to test
for differences in the means of fractal dimension between the 10 cm scale and the 1 m scale.
Measurements of biomass were carried out at a site protected from wave exposure and at a site with
more exposure, both near Monterey, CA (39 37'N, 121 50'W). Sandstone and granite test areas selected
in the protected site and basalt and granite test areas were chosen at the exposed site. Ten 100 cm transects
of visually different textures were selected within a range of 1 to 1.5 feet below the Endocladia-barnacle
