region to control for effective tidal height. The rock surface at each test area had a vertical inclination. The
test areas in the exposed site faced NNW and the test areas in the protected site faced NNE. All of sessile
species were collected in each test area and this biomass was separated into animals and plants; shaken, then
blotted six times and weighed. An acrylic mold of each test area was taken after the removal of the species,
The fractal dimension of each mold was determined through the same process described above.
ANOVA analysis was carried out to test for difference in the biomass between rock types at each
exposure. A regression analysis compared the fractal dimension of each transect to the corresponding
biomass of animals, plants and combined sources.
RESULTS
Measurements of the three rock types showed a significant difference in the fractal dimension at a
scale of 10 cm (Fig. 1). The difference between sandstone and basalt was significant according to a Tukey's
HSD test, but the other two comparisons (granite versus sandstone and granite versus basalt) were not. On
the scale of 1 m, the means of fractal dimension were not statistically different among the rock types (Fig.
1). There was however a significant difference between the two scales (10 cm and 1 m) within the rock
types. A Tukey's HSD test demonstrated that fractal dimensions of granite and sandstone at the I m scale
was greater than that at the 10 cm scale (Fig. 1). The two measurements of basalt were not statistically
different.
Biomass calculations revealed that in the protected site there was a strong difference in the pooled
biomass between the granite and sandstone. There was also a significant difference between the two types of
biomass (animal or plant) depending on which rock was analyzed. A significant interaction factor indicated
that the differences between rock types depended on type of biomass (Fig. 3). While animal biomass was
similar between rock types, plant biomass was much greater on the granite.
At the protected site, granite was dominated by Mastocarpus, Cthamalus and various limpets.
Sandstone's biomass was primarily Endocladia and Cthamalus.
