INTRODUCTION
The use of fractal geometry to describe the physical environment in ecosystems has become
increasingly useful as more and more fractal patterns are observed in nature. (Sugihara and May. 1990).
Fractal geometry has been used to model the growth of species of algae, the measurement of coastlines
(Sugihara and May, 1990) and the pore/grain ratio of sedimentary and carbonate rocks (Krohn, 1988).
Fractal geometry has several important aspects but the two that are most pertinent to ecological
studies are Ithe characteristic of self-similarity and nested patterns and 2)the characteristic of scale
dependent length. Self similarity is the concept of texture within texture. A profile, for example, may have
à certain pattern to it; if, when that profile is viewed on a smaller scale the same pattern is present, that
outline has a fractal nature. Self similarity also suggests that no matter what scale is used to view the outline
à similar pattern exists. In mathematics, fractal patterns can be exactly self-similar on every scale; but in
nature outlines and surface areas that have a fractal dimension are only statistically self similar because the
pattern is not precisely the same at each scale (Sugihara and May, 1990).
Self similarity contributes to the second important characteristic of fractal dimension: scale
dependent length. As the scale at which a fractal outline is viewed decreases the detail increases. Each
decrease in scale produces an exponential increase in the measured length of the outline (Morse et al.
1985). Total length, L, is dependent on scale length
L(r)= r exp(1-D),
(1)
where r=scale length and D= fractal dimension (Morse et al, 1985). The methodology of computing fractal
dimensions devised by Mandelbrot (1983) makes it possible to calculate dimension relatively easily: take a
profile of a surface and enclose it in a square box with a certain size, S, measured as the length of a side. To
obtain the fractal dimension at a particular scale L divide the box into (S/L)exp2 boxes each with a side
length of L. Count the number of boxes in which the line appears. Plot the natural log of the number of
boxes that contain at least one point as a function of the natural log of the scale length l. The fractal
dimension is (-1) multiplied by the slope of this line.
