Caz entry into sperm is thought to be one of the primary signals for
induction of the acrosome reaction; speract is suspected to act in the acrosome
reaction by inducing a transient rise in intracellular Ca2+ levels within the sperm;
(Collins & Epel, 1977; Yamaguchi et. al., 1987). Along with causing a fleeting
rise in intracellular Ca2+, it has been hypothesized that speract can regulate Ca2
within the sperm, an event of extreme significance to the acrosome reaction
(Schackmann & Chock, 1986). While it is believed that speract may even affect
the acrosome reaction by its enhancement of cyclic AMP concentration within the
sperm, speract is not thought to be responsible for triggering the acrosome
reaction. Yamaguchi demonstrated that speract acts as a cofactor with fucose
sulfate polysaccharide (another component isolated from the egg jelly) in
inducing the acrosome reaction in H. pulcherrimus sperm; my data coincides
with his results that speract itself is incapable of inducing the acrosome reaction
(Yamaguchi et. al., 1987).
A second method through which speract could act is through receptor-
mediated processes which initiate changes in ion flux from the sperm; some of
speract's effects are already known to be caused by the binding of speract to its
receptor, a high-affinity, 10-11 M, 77- kDa protein (Dangott & Garbers, 1984).
An 1231-labeled Bolton-Hunter adduct of speract was initially used to identify
the receptor but failed due to the lack of a free amino group which negated the
potential cross-linking studies to identify the receptor; thus an analogue termed
GGGIY2] was employed at pH 6.6 (Garbers, 1989; Dangott and Garbers, 1984).
The nM concentrations I have used do not agree with the idea of a high-affinity
receptor, and so it is suspected that there is yet another receptor, one of low¬
affinity, which has yet to be identified.
Garbers relates that in the cross-linking experiments used to identify the
high-affinity speract receptor, high concentrations of GGGIY21 speract could not
11
