Heat-Shock Proteins in T. californicus
approximately 1 week of observation. An independent population of
T. californicus from this pool did not revive after the next rainfall, as
the subject pool became networked with a neighboring pool of lesser
salinity.
Temperatures recorded in pools inhabited by T. californicus
ranged from 12.1 to 27.2°C. Low pool temperatures generally were
produced rapidly by rare periods of high wave activity, which
happened to largely wash out high rock pools long detached from the
sea. During these periods of high tides, salinity in the various pools
was noted to return rather quickly to that of the ocean (ca. 33%00)
High tides also had the effect of depleting the population of T.
californicus in some pools, but most populations appeared to recover
within several days.
Figure 1 shows a immunoblot, probed for HSP60, for several
unique populations of T. californicus after equal loading for total
protein (20ug). Laboratory controls at 32%00 and 60%0 appear in
lanes 1 and 2, respectively, numbered left to right. Lanes 3 through
8 represent T. californicus flash frozen at poolside for various splash
pools, with salinities ranging 33 to 78.7%0, increasing left to right
along the blot (see Table 1). Note that neither temperatures nor pHs
were constant during these samplings, but these parameters were
deemed not significantly different as salinities. Prominent reaction
of the anti-HSP60 polyclonal antibody occurs with protein(s) of
approximately 58kD. Note some anti-HSP60 cross-reactivity occurs
with lower molecular weight proteins in certain populations,
particularly in lanes 3 and 6.
Densitometric analysis of the 58kD bands is shown in Figure 2.
Trace densities (O.D. X mm) for these bands are listed in Table II.
Trace densities are linearly proportional to quantity of antigen
present, provided antigen-antibody interactions are quantitative in
the presence of excess antibody (Fernández and Kopchick, 1990).
Protein in lanes 6 and 8 were obtained from T. californicus in the
same rock pool, sampled at different times—when salinities were
measured at 60% and 78.7°/00, respectively. It appears that
significantly more HSP6O is produced in the T. californicus population
from this pool, over control levels and over levels obtained for other
