Heat-Shock Proteins in T. californicus
phosphorylation, thermal and osmotic fluctuations, and even viral
infection (Craig, 1985; Morimoto, et al., 1990). Upon application of a
stressor, cultured cells and tissues have been shown to respond by
preferentially synthesizing a set of proteins, known as the heat-
shock proteins (HSPs), while the synthesis of most other proteins is
inhibited or significantly decreased. Production of HSPs may be
greatly intensified or even induced de novo, with physiological
stress, and thus the heat-shock proteins are identified by their
markedly enhanced synthesis, compared to controls, after
perturbation (Lindquist, 1986).
Furthermore, it appears that the induction of HSPs coincides
with the acquisition of resistance to severe stress. In yeast,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a rapid shift in culture temperature from
23 to 36°C resulted in protection of cells from death at 52°C, a
normally lethal temperature for yeast cells (Craig, 1985). Moreover,
studies have found that the kinetics of thermotolerance induction
and decay are closely correlated with the kinetics of heat-shock
protein synthesis and degradation, suggesting that the synthesis of
HSPs is the crucial element in the acquisition of tolerance (Lindquist
1986). In the harpacticoid copepod Tigriopus brevicornis, high
salinity acclimation was found to enhance the survivability of
individuals in a broader range of temperatures (Damgaard and
Davenport, 1994). Though the physiological basis for this
heterologous tolerance has not been elucidated, it is reminiscent of
the numerous stressors capable of inducing the heat-shock response.
The stress protein response has been observed in all organisms
investigated thus far. Immunological studies have shown heat shock
proteins to be among the most highly conserved proteins in nature
Though differences exist
(Morimoto, et al., 1990; Lindquist, 1986).
amongst various organisms, for example in the number of heat-
shock proteins and their molecular weights, such conservation in
protein sequence suggests that either stress is a universal experience
of living creatures, or that the proteins play an essential role in
normal physiological processes (Morimoto, et al., 1990; Huey and
Bennett, 1990). Yet, while it generally assumed that the HSPs protect
• 3
