Heat-Shock Proteins in T. californicus
induction. Easton, et al. (1987) found in the salamander Eurycea
bislineata that heat hardening (the ability to withstand higher
maximum temperatures with repetitive treatments) occurred
regardless of whether HSP synthesis was induced. Thus it appears
that acclimation to stringent conditions may be independent of heat
shock protein synthesis.
The source of T. californicus euryhalinity may then be related
to its ability to osmoregulate its intracellular solute pool. Burton and
Feldman (1982) found that during hyposmotic stress, the
concentration of free amino acids within the body homogenate of
individuals significantly decreased in 3 to 5hrs. Under hyperosmotic
stress, free amino acid concentration was found to increase within
3hrs. Remarkably, as little an increase as 2%/00 has been shown to be
sufficient to induce proline synthesis in animals acclimated to
seawater at 16.5%0 (Burton, 1991). Thus in the wild, where gradual
salinity changes are commonplace, it appears that T. californicus may
maintain homeostasis by osmoregulation rather than by exhibiting a
stress protein response.
This does not explain, however, why some populations of T.
californicus exhibit consistently greater concentrations of heat-shock
Animal populations in Pool X, sampled during
proteins than others.
two distinct periods in this study (at 60%00 and 78.7°/00), appeared to
express more HSP60 than other pools. The reasons for this are
unclear. Perhaps the inhabitants of this pool, as a distinct population
with unique genetic characteristics, simply express higher basal
HSP60 expression. Additionally, we may not rule out the possibility
that increased synthesis is the result of a stressor for which we did
not account. However, this latter possibility seems unlikely, given
Variation in
Pool X’s proximity to other pools included in this study.
the level of HSP60 production was also observed between control
animals at 32%0 and 60%/00, obtained from different populations.
Comparison of stained gels for the various populations indicates
that protein composition varied somewhat from group to group.
Certain bands appeared more intense in some populations compared
to others. In some cases, unique bands were observed for a given
population. The explanation for this remains unclear. Perhaps true
• 9
