Heat-Shock Proteins in T. californicus
genetic differences exist between populations. Variation in protein
composition may also be related to the unique physico-chemical
environment of each pool. Alternatively, differences may be
artificially exaggerated due to fallible sampling techniques. Nimkin
(1977) found a significant positive association of salinity and percent
females in high saline pools. Female copepods apparently are more
resistant to stressors than males (Hakimzadeh, et al., 1990;
Damgaard, et al., 1994). If sex ratios are truly different amongst the
various splash pools tested, then a sampling error may have
occurred, as no attempt was made to separate males and females
prior to homogenization. This possibly accounts for observed protein
differences across populations.
In any case, if different populations of T. californicus have
different protein compositions, it may be unwise to weigh animals
based on total protein concentration. For example, suppose two
hypothetical populations (« and B) of T. californicus produced
identical amounts of HSP6O. But suppose population a had twice as
much blunderin (a hypothetical 116kD protein that serves no
purpose) as population ß. If we load the lanes of our gel for equal
total protein, transfer protein to a nylon membrane and then probe
for HSP60, population B would appear to have more HSP60 than
population a. A new method of weighing the animals must
therefore be developed. Counting individual animals may be the
best alternative. However, the problem of variability in chemical
composition amongst individuals would remain. We would also be
introducing a new factor—individual variability in body size.
Another obstacle to unambiguous, definitive results is the fact
that this study was conducted in the field. Thus it was not possible
to easily measure the effect of one variable while holding all others
constant. In the future, it may be more productive to devise splash
pool models in which variables may be controlled.
• 10
