Heat-Shock Proteins in T. californicus • 5
Isolation of soluble protein. Prior to protein extraction, flash frozen
animals were thawed on ice. Animals were then washed with 2L
UV-filtered sea water. Protein samples from each T. californicus
population were obtained by grinding whole animals, without regard
to sex, in a 2ml Teflon-glass homogenizer (Wheaton Instruments,
Millville, NJ) with 200ul homogenization buffer (10ml PBS in lOmM
EDTA, 50ul PMSF, 1Oul pepstatin, 1Oul leupeptin, 100ul chymostatin,
50ul NP-40). Homogenate was centrifuged for 10 minutes at 15000
rpm and supernatant removed. Protein concentrations were
determined by the method of Bradford using the MicroAssay
protocol developed by Pierce Laboratories, Inc. (Rockford, IL).
Quantifications were calculated from readings at 595nm from a
Beckman DU-7 spectrophotometer. Proteins samples were then
mixed 1:1 in 2x solubilizing buffer (8M urea, 4% SDS, 100mM tris,
0.01% bromophenol blue) with dithiothreitol and boiled for 3
minutes. Samples were either used immediately or stored at -20°C.
Separation of proteins. Proteins were separated by one¬
dimensional sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) on 10% minigels (8 X 7 cm) of 1.5mm
thickness according to the procedure described by Laemmli (1970)
Resolution was at a constant current of 25mA per gel at room
temperature. Pre-stained molecular weight standards (Sigma, St.
Louis, MO.) were loaded onto each gel for the determination of
molecular weights of proteins. Gels not destined for electrophoretic
transfer were subsequently stained with Coomassie blue for at least
3 hours and destained overnight in 10% isopropanol and 10% acetic
acid.
Electrophoretic transfer. Electroblotting of proteins to Immobilon-P
PVDF transfer membranes (Millipore, Bedford, MA) was performed
according to the procedure described by Burnette (1981) with slight
modifications. Following electrophoresis, stacking gel was removed
and the resolving gel and two pieces filter paper (Whatman,
Hillsboro, OR) were soaked for approximately 5 minutes in transfer
