the BO and the OG bacteria. The negative control probe to Shewanella putrefaciens did not
hybridize to either isolate, indicating that these isolates were more closely related to the neu
AN gland species, than they were to its close relative in the same genus. This observation
supported the hypothesis that the species found in the AN gland was also found in the ege
sheaths, and further indicated that the OG and BO isolates were closely related on the
species level, with genomic variation due possibly to strain type. The Wisolate from the
egg sheath did not hybridize to the probe for the newly identified AN gland symbiont.
indicating that this isolate was a different species than the BO and OG isolates.
Conclusive evidence for the species homology of the BO, OG and AN gland
symbiotic bacteria was provided by the amplification and sequencing of the l6s ribosomal
DNA gene. The 16s ribosomal DNA gene is used for sequence analysis because it contains
several regions of highly conserved sequence useful for obtaining alignments, yet contains
sufficient sequence variability in other regions of the molecule to serve as a phylogenetic
chronometer (Brock, 1996). Sequence analysis of the 16s genes of the three types of egg
sheath isolates showed that the BO and OG morphologies were closely related on the
species level, as had been indicated by the whole cell hybridization study. Both isolates
had almost identical rDNA sequences when compared to each other and to the sequence of
à previous AN gland isolate. A homology search of the Genbank database produced no
closer match to the BO and OG isolates' 16S rDNA sequences, than the percent similarity
between the egg sheath isolates and the sequence of the AN gland symbiont, leading to the
conclusion that the BO. OG and newly identified AN gland symbiont are of the same
species.
The presence of tw o morphologically different strains of the same species of
symbiont in some of the egg sheaths leads to speculation on the diversity among strains of
the AN gland symbionts. Competition between strains of Vibrio fisheri has been
documented in the light organ of the pacific squid E. scolopes (Lee. K.H., 1991). The
light organ of this squid is analogous to the AN gland of the loliginid squid how ev er it been
