of similarity (described in materials and methods) among pairwise comparisons of isolates
show the AN gland symbionts and egg sheath isolates of the same morphologies produced
the highest ratios of similarity (Table 6). A chart of these values graphically illustrates the
amplification product similarity ratios (Figure 6).
Whole cell hybridisations
A l6s ribosomal DNA probe desi gned to specifically label the newly identified AN
gland symbiont (SQ26) also labeled the BO and OG egg sheath isolates, indicating that the
two egg sheath isolates were closely related to, if not the same species as the AN gland
symbiont (Figure 7). The W bacteria were not labeled by this probe. The control probe
EUB which hybridizes at a conserved region of the l6s gene and thus labels all eubacteria,
labeled all the isolates tested. The negative control probe, specific to Shewanella
putrefaciens, and differing from the newly identified Shewanella species probe (SO26) by
4 bases, did not hybridize to any of the isolates, only to the control strain of S. putrefaciens
(SPATCC). The no probe treatment indicated the level of autofluorescence emitted by the
bactena, and provided the standard against which the positive or negative results of the
other probe treatments were judged. The cumulative results of all the hybridizations and
controls are shown in Table 7.
l6s Ribosomal DNA Amplification and Sequencing.
The l6s ribosomal DNA was amplified via PCR as described in the Materials and
Methods section and the amplification product viewed on a.7% agarose gel. A band near
150Obp was observed indicating the amplification reaction had been successful.
Sequencing of the purified product was performed by the Stanford University Protein
Nucleic Acid facility (PAN). Sequences of the BO and OG isolates were found to be at
least 96% identical to that of the newly identified AN gland symbiont. The OG isolates
were found to be at least 93% identical to the sequence of the AN gland symbiont. The
BO and OG isolates were also 93%e identical. Due to an incomplete sequence (10 out of
