antifungal compound compatible with the tissue of newly developing squid has widespread
pharmaceutical implications. Most antifungal compounds will indiscriminately damage all
eukaryotic cells, not just fungal ones, so a fungicidal compound specific only to fungal
cells could revolutionize the treatment of fungal infections.
Both the BO and the OG bacteria were shown to produce hydrogen sulfide.
Hydrogen sulfide is a toxic compound and its presence in the egg sheath suggests that
perhaps the squid have developed a defense to this compound. H,S, like putrescine, is part
of the chemical signal of rotting food, and may also serve to deter predators by chemically
disguising the egg cases as rotting material.
Molecular studies were used to determine whether the similarities observed in
morphology and activity profiles among the BO and OG egg sheath isolates and the AN
gland symbionts could be observed at the genomic level. A four primer RAPD PCR
analysis was used to assign ratios of similarity for pairwise comparisons of egg sheath
isolates and AN gland isolates. The highest ratios of similarity achieved were between the
white AN gland isolates and white egg sheath isolates, and between BO egg sheath
isolates, and the newly identified Shewanella species from the AN gland. The OG isolates
were shown to genomically differ from the BO ones, as they consistently produced a
fingerprint distinct from the AN gland isolate or BO egg sheath isolate. This fingerprint
analysis indicated some genomic difference between the BO and the OG bacteria. The ratios
of fingerprint similarity obtained through this 4 primer RAPD analysis much be considered
qualitatively. Robust RAPD PCR analysis of population genetics can be performed with
20 or more primers under optimal conditions, to give more accurate estimations of genetic
similanty. The ratios obtained from the four primer study have been used to assign trends
only. not true indexes of genomic similarity.
lo verify that the egg sheath isolates were the same species as isolates from the AN
gland. as had been indicated for the BO isolate by the RAPD fingerprint analysis, IDNA
probes specific to the new ly identified AN gland symbiont were shown to hybridize to both
