to its association with bacteria and secretory structure, the AN gland has been indicated as a
likely source for bacteria found in the egg sheath (Biggs and Epel, 1991).
Verification that the bacteria in the freshly laid egg sheaths were of the same new
Shewanella species as the bacteria from the AN gland would be strong evidence to support
the theory of vertical transmission. Several techniques were employed to investigate
whether the bacteria in the AN gland were vertically transmitted to the egg sheath. In this
study we illustrated that the bacteria in the egg sheath express the same potentially
symbiotic activities as the bacteria in the AN gland, antifungal activity, protease activity and
the production of hydrogen sulfide. RAPD PCR analysis of the egg sheath isolates
genomic DNA demonstrated that egg sheath isolates and AN gland isolates produced
similar genomic fingerprints. Whole cell hybridization studies showed that 165 IDNA
probes specifically designed to label the AN gland symbiont would also label egg sheath
isolates. Additionally, l6s ribosomal DNA amplification, sequencing, and homology
searches revealed that egg sheath isolates had almost identical 16S rDNA sequences as
previous AN gland isolates. and indicated the presence of a second uncharacterized species
in both the AN gland and the egg sheath.
Pathogenic associations have long been the focus of bacterial-animal interactions.
However all animals maintain cooperative associations with a complement of bacteria
(Ruby, 1996) and would not be able to survive without microbial assistance. Models of
non pathogenic bacterial-animal associations can reveal much about the w ay prokarvotes
interact with eukaryotic cells. provide valuable information to the medical and
pharmace utical community. and contribute to an understanding of the dy namics of the
biosphere. Squid-bacteria symbiosis have been previously characterized in both loliginid
squid such as Loligo pealei (Bloodgood. 1977/ Barbieri.19%6) and sepiod squid such as
Euprymna scolopes (Ruby. 19%6). Loligo opalescens is the first of such squid-bacteria
models hy pothesi zed to vertically transmit its bacterial symbionts to the egg sheaths of its
embryos.
