Abstract
The resistance of Loligo opalescens embryos to predation may be due to symbiotic
bacteria which colonize the egg sheath. It has been hypothesized that these symbiotic
microbes are transferred to the egg sheath from the accessory nidamental (AN) gland of the
mature female. Cultures of bactena from freshly spawned egg sheath tissue have produced
two to three morphological types of bacteria. Sheath and gland isolates of the same
morphology were shown to express identical patterns of protease activity, antifungal
activity, and H,S production. Whole cell hybridizations of purified sheath bacteria with
l6s TDNA probes supports the hypothesis that one sheath isolate is the same species as a
previously charactenzed AN gland isolate. RAPD PCR analysis confirms the correlation
between sheath and gland isolates by showing both produce similar genomic fingerprints.
Comparative analysis of 16S FDNA sequences verifies this homology between sheath and
gland isolates, indicating vertical transmission of the AN gland symbionts to the egg sheath
during spawning.
Introduction
Monterey Bay is a spawning ground for the squid Loligo opalescens which
deposits numerous eggs cases on the ocean floor every spring. The squid embryos,
encased within a mucopolysaccharide egg sheath, have been observed to develop virtually
undisturbed during their three to five week incubation period. Studies have shown that the
sheaths of these egg cases are inhabited by bacteria (Biggs and Epel, 1991). The presence
of these bacteria in the egg sheath may protect the embryos from micro and macro
predation. Previous studies have indicated that these sheath bacteria secrete putrescine, a
polyamine compound found in rotting material, which has been shown to deter potential
predators from the egg cases (Hoerner, 1996).
The presence of bacteria within newly laid cases suggests that the bacteria and the
egg sheath may be secreted simultaneously, a process known as vertical transmission. A
newly identified species of bacteria in the genus Shewanella has been shown to colonize the
accessory nidamental gland (AN gland) of the female squid which participates in the
secretion of the egg case (Kaufman. personal communication). The AN gland is also
known as the reproductive gland. as its color signals the reproductive maturity of the squid.
This change in color occurs upon the colonization of the gland by pigmented bacteria. Due
