Figure Legends
Averaged ethanol treatment effects on colony formation units per gram.
Figure 1.
The cfus/g decrease linearly as the length of the Ethanol treatment times
increase.
Averaged ethanol treatment effects on cfus/g of the three morphologies
Figure 2.
isolated in trials 2 and 3.
Figure 3.
3a) Protease plate. Zone of clearing around BO and OG isolates indicate
proteolytic activity. No zone of clearing is present around white isolate.
3b)TSI plate. Black precipitate in bacterial patch indicated the production of
hydrogen sulfide. BO and ÖG both have a black precipitate, the white
colony does not.
Electron Micrographs of BO, OG and Wisolates.
Figure 4.
a) BO bacteria in log phase. Cell is dividing by binary fission.
b)W bacteria in stationary phase. Note F pilus for DNA exchange/mating
protruding from the side of the bacterium.
e)OG bacteria with single polar flagellum. Hair-like lines extending from the
surface of bacteria are most likely staining artifacts.
Two RAPD gels showing amplification patterns with 2 different primers.
Figure 5.
Similar genomic finger prints shown among the BO isolates, lanes 4-7 and
among the white isolates lanes 10-13. Different finger prints obtained
for the OG isolates compared to the BO isolates.
lanes:
8-J8 ÖG: ÖG from sheath J8
1- size standard
9- J8 ÖG: ÖG from sheath J8
2- No DNA control
10-JI W: W from sheath J1
3-Ecoli
4- SQ26: Sequence of AN isolate
11-J2 W: W from sheath J2
5- SQ1O: AN gland isolate
12-J8 W: W from sheath J8
6-JI BO: BO from sheath J
13-MK84: WAN gland isolate
7- J8 BO: BO from sheath J8
Figure 6.
Graph of RAPD analysis ratios of similarities among pairwise comparisons
of isolates. Note that the BO isolates have a high ratio of similarity when
compared to the previous sheath and AN gland isolates SQ26 and SQ1O.
The W bacteria have a high ratio of similarity when compared to MK84. a
previous white isolate from the AN gland.
Figure 7.
Photos of whole cell hybridization for BO isolate.
Note positive hybridization signals for the EUB and SQ26 probe and
negative hybnidization signals for the SPN and no probe treatments.
