morphologies of bacteria were present in the AN gland at varying relative frequency based
on the age of the squid. Whole cell images of the Wisolates roughly match the sectioned
images presented by Lai. The two morphologies described were a rod shaped bacterium
which would correspond to the BO and OG isolates from this study, and a smaller rounder
morphology, which would correspond to the Wisolate from this study. The different
morphologies in Lai's study were recognized to possibly be due to differences in the
bactenum's orientation during sectioning. However, differences in the maturity levels of
the squid examined also correlated to differing morphologies of bacteria.
A homology search through Genbank for the Wisolate's sequence presented two
new species of the genus Roseobacter as the nearest relatives based on 165 rDNA sequence
with a percentage of identity of 86.6% and 84.4%. These percentages of TDNA homology
are too low to assign genus or species verification. However, it is interesting to note that
Roseobacter algicola, the first identity suggested, is a newly identified marine symbiont of
the dinoflagellate Prorocentrum lima (Lafay, 1995). And the second identity suggested is
an unidentified species of a Roseobacter symbiont of the gall tissue of the marine red alga
Prionitis lanceolata (Ashen, Goff, 1996).
Studies by Hena Barbieri (1996) have indicated that the accessory nidamental gland
of the Atlantic squid Loligo pealei is inhabited by a diverse population of bacteria. Twenty
morphologically distinct colonies were isolated from the L. pealei AN gland. Using rRNA
sequence analysis. one of these morphological types was most closely related to the genus
Roseobacter with 93% identity to Roseobacter denitrificans. It is possible that the W
bactera is a new species within the genus Roseobacter, a member of the alpha sub-group
of the proteobacter.
Conclusion
This study has provided evidence to support the theory that the squid Loligo
opdlescens vertically transmits a reproductive gland bacterial symbiont to the egg sheaths of
its embryos by demonstrating that the bacteria isolated from freshly spaw ned egg sheaths
