specialized to house bioluminescent bacteria and to emit light as a counter-predatory
measure. The studies showed that multiple strains of V. fisheri were capable of colonizing
the light organ and were able to do so when competing strains were absent. In the presence
of à dominant strain, even light organs previously colonized by non-dominant bacteria
quickly became saturated with the dominant strains to the exclusion of the less dominant
strains.
Since BO is the only strain of the newly identified Shewanella species that has been
observed in colonies obtained from AN gland tissue, it is possible that this is the dominant
strain within the species and prevents the growth of the OG strain in vivo. Perhaps
sometimes several of the OG bacteria are able to survive in the AN gland despite the
selective pressure for the BO, and are successfully vertically transmitted into the egg sheath
where, free of the selective pressure, they are able to establish an equal population as the
BO strain. This would explain why only some of the egg sheaths contained the OG strain
while all of them contained the BO and Wstrains, and would further explain why no OG
colonies had been observed during investigations of the AN gland. This hypothesis could
be investigated by plating AN gland tissue homogenate on marine agar plates containing the
antibiotic cefazolin to which the OG isolate is resistant but the BO isolate and W isolate are
not. If enough OG bacteria reside at low levels in the AN gland, they may be observable
on such a culture. However, this method may not be able to detect the presence of only a
few bacteria in the AN gland and another method of selecting for the OG strain would have
to be devised.
The third morphology of bacteria isolated from the egg sheath were the Wisolates
which RAPD RCR analysis had indicated were the same genotype as Wisolates from the
AN gland. The Wisolates were shown not to be of the same species as the BO and OG by
the whole cell hybridization study. and this was confirmed by 16S FDNA sequence
analysis. Previous studies of the AN gland's association with bacteria by electron and
fluorescent microscopy (Lai. 1994) had indicated the possibility that two distinct
