1300 bp total), the given percentages of identity among the OG, BO and AN gland
symbiont are likely to be higher than indicated.
Using the computer algorithm FASTA, the OG and W sequences were compared to
the bacterial l6s FDNA sequences in the Genbank database to locate instances of sequence
homology (Table 8). The closest match to the OG bacteria that Genbank presented was a
barophilic Shewanella strain (DB5S0 1) with a similarity percentage of 92.1%, followed
closely by 9 Shewanella species and strains with similarity percentages from 91.9-893%.
The closest match presented by Genbank is over 3% lower than the match between the
newly identified species of Shewanella from the AN gland and the OG bacteria. The W
isolate 's sequence was also searched for in the Genbank database. The closet match
presented by Genbank was Roseobacter algicola a newly identified symbiont of the
dinoflagellate Prorocentrum lima. (Lafay, B et al, 1995). The percent of similarity between
the Wisolate and Roseobacter was 86.6%.
Discussion
In this study we verified that bacteria isolated from freshly spawned squid eggs
were the same as AN gland symbionts, indicating the vertical transmission of the bacterial
symbionts from the squid to their egg cases. Bacterial isolates from the egg sheath were
tested to verify that they expressed the same potentially symbiotic activities as isolates from
the AN gland. The BO and OG bacteria were shown to express protease activity. The
protease activity expressed by these isolates may serve to create an inhospitable
environment within the egg sheath to prevent additional microbial colonization. This
protease activity may also serve weaken the egg sheath when the embryos are ready to
emerge from their incubation.
The antifungal activity shown to be expressed by BO egg sheath isolates and AN
gland isolates may also be a symbiotic function as the egg sheaths are observed to be
resistant to fungal parasites during their incubation period. The bacterial production of an
