Abstract
The squid Loligo opalescens deposit their egg cases in conspicuous masses on the
floor of Monterey Bay. These egg masses remain largely undisturbed by predation
during the 30 days until embryo hatching. A reproductive gland of the adult
female squid contains bacteria of predominantly one species which the female
includes in the egg case during spawning. These bacteria are of the genus
Shewenella, closely related to Shewenella putrefaciens, a putrefying marine
bacteria which is characterized by the production of extremely large quantities of
the polyamine putrescine. In this study, bacteria isolated from the squid gland and
egg sheath were examined by HPLC to determine the quantity of putrescine. The
bacteria contained amounts of putrescine comparable to S. putrefaciens. The
possible role of the putrescine was then examined in a chemotactic response assay
utilizing the starfish Pisaster ochraceus, a common predator at the depth of the egg
masses. S. putrefaciens, the squid bacteria and a solution of putrescine were found
be significant deterrents to the P. ochraceus while a control strain, Vibrio harvevi.
with low levels of putrescine showed no deterrence. These results suggest a role
for putrescine in the protection of the L. opalescens egg cases from predation.
Introduction
Every spring the squid Loligo opalescens come to Monterey Bay to mate and
subsequently lay egg cases in large conspicuous masses on sandy shelves of the bay.
The adult squid die soon after mating. The egg masses incubate for 30 days until
the squid hatch suffering little attrition by predators, bacteria or fungus. The fact
that these egg cases are not eaten suggests they have some means of chemical
defense, a widespread survival strategy in ocean environments.
The sheath of the egg case contain large quantities of bacteria (Biggs and
Epel, 1991). These bacteria are presumably secreted into the egg case by the female
squid, who harbors the bacteria within her accessory nidamental (AN) gland. The
bacteria in the AN gland are primarily one species of the genus Shewenella, a close
relative of the bacteria Shewenella putrefaciens (Melissa Kaufman, unpublished
data). S. putrefaciens is a putrefying marine bacteria that synthesizes large
quantities of putrescine ranging from 3 umol/g cell weight (Hamana and
Matsuzaki, 1992) to 251.4 nmol/mg cell protein - approximately 10 umol/g cell
