depend on ion channels so it is possible that by interfering with the channels the
putrescine is interfering with the chemosensory abilities of the predators. The
interaction with the ion channels could also involve other neurons and be toxic
rather than simply affecting the chemosensation of the predator. Further study
would need to determine the effects of putrescine on various neurons in potential
predators of squid egg cases.
A final hypothesis is that the putrescine functions to disguise the squid egg
case as rotting material. Putrescine is found in many rotting materials (Yamanaka
and Masumoto, 1989) and a recent study has found that the squid egg case bacteria
release also hydrogen sulfide (Melissa Kaufman, unpublished work) which is part
of the smell of rotting eggs and other materials and could work cooperatively with
the putrescine to together convince the predators that the egg cases were rotting
tissue. Most marine organisms that live in the squid-laying area are predators that
will not scavenge putrefying substances (im Watanabe, personal communication)
The only organisms that have been found near the egg cases are Capitella ovincola
(a species of worm), hermit crabs, and sometimes bat stars. The worms Capitella
are often found in hydrogen sulfide rich environments and in sewage and cannery
run-off. Capitella ovincola is only found in the squid egg cases and does not affect
the eggs unless it multiplies rapidly and disrupts the eggs (Morris et al, 1980)
This study has shown that the symbiotic bacteria found in squid egg cases
synthesize large quantities of putrescine, which might be used to deter predation
on the eggs during the incubation period before hatching. The chemical defense
of squid eggs is not yet fully understood but the information collected thus far
gives à tantalizing glimpse of possible mechanisms of protection. Marine
chemical defenses are complex, fascinating systems and scientific research into
their mechanisms and possible applications to medicine is gaining momentum.
13
