less noxious than other toxins released by marine organisms. The lower toxicity is
possibly explained by the role of these compounds in protecting squid eggs as
opposed to adult organisms which are less sensitive to toxic compounds. The
other explanation for the longer retraction time in the McClintock study was the
temperature at which the assay was conducted. McClintock used Antarctic species
and had an assay temperature of 0°C, whereas the assay in this study was
conducted at about 15°C where biological actions such as retraction and re-
emergence would occur faster.
The starfish assay is a less definite assay than the HPLC because tube foot
retraction is part of a larger behavioral pattern with inherent variability. The
retraction times recorded were highly variable which was compensated for by a
relatively large number of samples for each treatment. The starfish also tended to
become stressed by the testing environment and this lengthened retraction times.
1o compensate for this, the best effort was made to test only starfish that did not
appear to be stressed and to exchange starfish as soon as the one being tested began
to appear stressed.
The other uncertainty in this study was the environment in vivo. The
putrescine in the starfish assay was used at a concentration of 10 mM because of
previously published data on S. putrefaciens. Later calculations showed that the
concentration of putrescine in the squid bacterial extracts was closer to 1 mM
suggesting there may be alternate compounds produced by the bacteria that also
worked to deter the starfish in the starfish assay.
Not enough research has been done on the system in vivo to determine the
amount of putrescine in the natural starfish/egg case interaction. The bacteria
might secrete the putrescine directly into the ocean and allow the soluble
compound to have long-range effects, although this possibility seems unlikely in
terms of the energy cost of maintaining a large concentration of putrescine close to
