Figure Legends
Figure 1:
The Structure of Common Polyamines
This diagram shows the chemical composition and structure of the
common polyamines: putrescine, cadaverine, spermine, and spermidine.
These
compounds are simple carbon chains with between two and four nitrogens. Each
nitrogen carries a positive charge under physiological conditions, making
polyamines cationic molecules. Many of their roles in cells are a results of their
cationic nature.
Figure 2: HPLC Chart Recording of Putrescine Standard
This HPLC chart recording shows a typical chart for the putrescine standard at 125
mM. The putrescine peak is at approximately 7 minutes. The peaks about 3
minutes after injection are salt peaks that consistently occurred in all injections,
The height of the putrescine peak is relative to the concentration of putrescine in
the injection and standards were used to quantify the relationship between peak
height and concentration.
Figure 3: Standard Curve of the HPLC Standards
The results from the HPLC standards are graphed here and a least squares linear
regression was applied to quantify the relationship between peak height and
concentration. The equation and r value are shown.
Figure 4: HPLC Chart Recording of Vibrio harveyi
This HPLC chart recording shows a typical recording of the bacteria V. harveyi, a
bacterial species that contains no detectable putrescine. The peaks in the beginning
around 3 minutes are salt contaminants and are consistent in all charts. The two
peaks close to 7 minutes are peaks that appear approximately the same size in
every bacterial chart recording regardless of putrescine concentration.
Figure 5: HPLC Chart Recording of Vibrio harveyi and Shewenella putrefaciens
This HPLC chart recording overlays a typical S. putrefaciens chart on the V.
harveyi chart shown in figure 4. Overlaying the charts we can see the putrescine
elutes between the two small peaks that appear in all bacterial charts. By
measuring the height of this peak we are able to quantify the amount of putrescine
that was in the injection and therefore the amount of putrescine in the bacteria.
Figure 6: HPLC Chart Recording of Vibrio harveyi and Squid Strain 10
This HPLC chart recording overlays a typical squid bacteria chart onto the V.
harveyi chart. Here it is evident that the squid bacteria contain putrescine in
amounts comparable to the S. putrefaciens.
﻿18
