The results were then analyzed for the four bacteria. Figures 4 shows a
typical run of the negative control V. harveyi. All the bacteria charts contained
two peaks at about 7 minutes flanking the place where putrescine elutes. These
two peaks are unidentified, but they are consistent and distinct from the putrescine
peak. Figure 5 is an overlay of two chart recordings - V. harveyi control and the
positive control, S. putrefaciens. From this overlay it is clear that the large peak at
about 7 minutes between the two smaller peaks in the control V. harvevi is
putrescine. Figure 6 is an overlay of the V. harveyi and the squid bacteria strain 10.
It also contains a putrescine peak that matches the putrescine peak of the S.
putrefaciens, demonstrating that the squid bacteria does contain large quantities of
putrescine. A table of putrescine concentrations found in each bacteria species is
shown in table I and a graph of the interpreted results is shown in figure 7. The
control strain V. harveyi did not contain any putrescine down to our detection
level of .57 umol/g cell wet weight. The S. putrefaciens were found to contain
7.67 umol/g cell wet weight of putrescine and the squid bacteria also contained
large amounts of putrescine; strain 10 contained 4.72 umol/g cell wet weight and
strain 26 contained 4.37 umol/g cell wet weight.
Starfish Tube Foot Assay Results:
The average retraction time and standard error of the starfish tube feet assay
is shown in table II. Figure 8 is a graph of these results. The data was log
transformed to reduce the variability and normalize the deviations. An ANOVA
was then done and the results were analyzed by Tukey's test. This test is fairly
conservative and takes into account the possible interactions of data. All bacteria
extracts and the putrescine were compared with the media to see if they had a
significantly greater deterrence than the media. All the putrescine containing
extracts (squid strains 10 and 26, S. putrefaciens, and putrescine at 10 mM) deterred
