the egg cases. It is also possible that the bacteria sequester the putrescine in the egg
sheath so when a predator penetrates the egg case, a concentrated solution of
putrescine is released. Another possibility is that the level of putrescine in nature
is less than the amount necessary to deter starfish and so though this compound is
à deterrent in the test system, it is not the cause of predator deterrence in the real
world. In considering these possibilities, it is impossible to say what the
concentration of putrescine is in nature and this remains a fascinating and
important area to research.
Assuming that putrescine is the reason for predator deterrence in the ocean.
we are then left with the question of how the putrescine deters predators. The
three categories of roles attributed to polyamines - DNA/RNA interactions,
bacterial products, and ion channel interactions - suggests three different
hypotheses. The first hypothesis is that putrescine deters predators by an
interaction with the DNA or RNA of the predator. The only detrimental effect in
the interactions between DNA and RNA and polyamines is cell apoptosis which
can occur if cells are exposed to large quantities of polyamines during certain times
in their cell cycle. This hypothesis does not fit with the current data because cell
apoptosis would take place on a much longer time scale than the retraction of a
starfish tube foot.
The rejection of this first category leaves us with two viable categories of
polyamine function from which to form hypothesis. One hypothesis involves
putrescine affects on the ion channels of either sensory or other neurons in the
predator. The other hypothesis suggests that the putrescine may be part of a
scheme to imitate rotting food and thus evade predation.
The hypothesis that the putrescine interacts directly or indirectly with ion
channels is quite interesting. It has been shown that putrescine concentrations of 1
mM increased Ca¬ currents in neuroblastoma cells (Scott et al, 1993). All senses
﻿12
