Page 16
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
SUMMARY
activators, these acid and slightly alkaline enzymes show
many similarities to cathepsins and trypsins respectively
Three protcolytic enzymes were found in the digestive
(SUMNER & MYRBÄCK, 1950, pp. 857ff.). The acid
tract of Tégula funebralis, which had pH optima of 5.0.
enzyme and cathepsins are both inactivated upon oxi¬
8.6, and 10.5. The enzyme extract was a saline homo-
dation as shown by the addition of HgCle, and conversely,
genate of the entire digestive tract which had been centri-
they are activated by reduction, as shown by the addition
fuged, filtered, and then filtered through a Sephadex G-50
of cysteine. The question of intra- or extra-cellular digest¬
column. The substrate used was sodium caseinate. Activa¬
tors include Mn“, and cysteine; inhibitors include Co“,
ion still remains unanswered.
Zn“, and Hg“.
The activity of the slightly alkaline enzyme is less than
that of the acid one. It resembles a trypsin of some type
LITERATURE CITED
with respect to its pH optimum and differs from some
COLOWICK, SIDNEY P & NATHAN O. KAPLAN
other molluscan enzymes in that it is not inhibited by
1955. Methods in enzymology, vol. II. New York, Acad.
cysteine. Activity is also increased by the manganous ion,
Press Inc. xx + 987 pp.
as in the case of the acid enzyme, and is significantly
GALLI, D. P & ARTHUR C. GIESE
inhibited by the presence of the zinc ion.
1959. Carbohydrate digestion in a herbivorous snail, Tegula
Various proteinases with very alkaline pH optima have
funebralis. Journ. Exp. Zool. 140: 415-440
been reported in the literature (PowNING, 1951 and
LOwRY, O. H. et al.
SHINODA, 1930). This enzyme in Tegula is completely
Protein measurements with the Folin Phenol reagent.
1951.
uncharacterized. It was tested for dipeptidase activity
Journ. Biol. Chem. 193: 265 - 275
using a glycyl-glycine substrate; however, no activity
PROSSER, C. LADD (ed.)
was observed in the assay system used. Further experi-
1950.
Comparative animal physiology. W. B. Saunders,
ments on the enzyme’s specificity are now underway.
ix + 888 pp.; illust.
Preliminary studies indicate that the acid enzyme is
SUMNER, JAMES & KARL MYRBÄCK
concentrated in the midgut region, i. e. the stomach and
1950. The enzymes. vol. I, part II. Acad. Press Inc. New
the digestive gland.
York. 1361 pp.; illust.
4
