Page 14
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Proteolytic Enzymes in the Gastropod Tegula funebralis
ALLAN D. ERICKSON
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(3 Text figures; 1 Table)
RELATIVELY LITTLE has been reported on invertebrate
1600-
enzymes. In the black turban snail, Tegula funebralis
(A. ADAMS, 1854), commonly found in the rocky inter¬
tidal zone of the western coast of North America, various
1200-
carbohydrases have recently been reported (GALLI &amp
GIESE, 1959). Although these snails are primarily herbi¬
vorous, one might expect proteases and lipases to be
present in their digestive system. The purpose of this
8 800
study was to find and to characterize the proteases in
T. funebralis.
METHODS
400
Only fresh animals collected at China Point, Pacific
Grove, California, were used in this experiment. The
enzyme extract was a saline homogenate of the entire
1
digestive tract, beginning with the tissue of the buccal
cavity and the salivary glands and ending with the hind
Milliliter of filtrate
gut. This also included the digestive gland, spiral caecum,
and a small, unavoidable section of gonad. The tissue
from one animal was homogenized in 3.0 ml of distilled
Figure 1: Filtration of 2.5 ml Tissue Extract on
water or saline solution for about two minutes. This
Sephadex G-50 Column.
extract was centrifuged for one hour in the high speed
Servel and filtered through Whatman No. 1 paper.
water or saline solution to such a volume that the tissue
When the extract at this stage of purification was usec
weight/volume extract quotient was 0.03. Although the
in the test system, the enzyme controls were undesirably
activity of this purified extract was not as high as that
high. This was caused by various low molecular weight
of the crude extract, the enzyme controls were reduced
polypeptides, which added to the color development
to a level corresponding to only 5% of the total activity,
process described below. Therefore, this extract was
This was the extract used in the test system.
filtered through a Sephadex G-50 column, with a volume
A modified version of the casein digestion method
of about 10 ml, which crudely separated the protein
described by KUNITz was employed (CoLOWICK & KAP-
material with respect to its molecular weight. Assuming
LAN, 1955, pp. 33 ff.). The substrate was a 1% solution
the proteases to be among the larger molecules present.
of Difco sodium caseinate in distilled water. This solu¬
1 collected the fourth through the seventh milliliters
tion was boiled for 15 minutes to assure complete disso¬
of filtrate as it came off the column. This was determined
lution and denaturation of the casein. To this were added
by filtering 2.5 ml of crude extract through the column
à few drops of toluene to prevent the mass growth of
with the continued addition of distilled water or saline
bacteria in both the stock solution and also the test
solution and determining the amount of protein in each
system. 1o 1.0 ml of substrate was added 2.5 ml of buffer.
of the first twenty-four 1.0 ml aliquots (see Figure 1)
at twice the desired final concentration, and 1.0 ml of
The assay procedure is described below. These four
enzyme extract. The system was brought to 5.0 ml by
milliliters of filtrate contained essentially all of the pro¬
the addition of 0.5 ml of distilled water. The tubes were
tease activity of the entire gut and were diluted with
incubated for 24 hours at 15° C; digestion was stopped
