samples in the Hopkins clade. The 98 percent bootstrap value puts these samples clearly
in their own clade.
Discussion:
Tattribute the source of the population structure within localities to collection
methods. As mentioned earlier, in Santa Cruz I collected from a stretch of shoreline
about 6m in length, while at Hopkins I sampled over about 100m. That there is more
population structure at Hopkins is not necessarily due to the location. Samples from the
first Hopkins clade (1, 2, 3, 5, 6) came from the Bird Rocks side of Agassiz beach.
Samples 4 and 7 came from the other side of the beach, and samples 8, 9, and 10 came
from Fisher beach. The population structure seen in the Santa Cruz samples indicates
that population differences occur over very short distances in M. papillatus. The
population structure in the Hopkins clade also indicates small scale population
differences. From the population differences seen, it seems that the scale of variation in
Mastocarpus is quite small, so that a short stretch of sand between rocks could provide a
high degree of isolation. It would be interesting then to see if rocky areas have the same
degree of population structure as sandier areas.
It is also possible that the higher proportion of asexual reproduction contributes to
the population structure of the Santa Cruz and Hopkins clades. Asexual reproduction
could give more genetic isolation and cause the observed population structure. More
mixing of genes from the greater proportion of sexual reproduction in Santa Barbara
would give less isolation and then yield less population structure.
Carpospore cultures remain to be done. These would link the type of reproduction
in a female blade to its genetics. It could then be resolved whether asexual reproduction
in these plants allows for more population structure and how much mixing is going on
between sexually reproducing stocks. This would then help to explain why the species is
so dependent on asexual reproduction over so much of its range.
Many photosynthetic organisms in their home range have increased asexual
reproduction at the extremes of their range (Zupan 1999) and (Van den Hoek 1975).
The
pattern seen in Mastocarpus is not unique except that the proportion of asexually
