different generation in the alga’s life cycle. This tissue can contain DNA from a
fertilizing male and is therefore eliminated. Samples were then briefly washed in 10
percent hydrogen peroxide and blotted dry. From each cleaned blade were taken two 0.15
to 0.20 gram sections. These two sections were then treated as separate samples
throughout extraction, purification, and AFLP in order to act as controls for each other
over the rest of the protocol.
Each piece of blade was ground to fine powder in liquid nitrogen in a small
ceramic mortar and pestle which was cleaned with BACDOWNO DETERGENT
DISINFECTANT (Decon Labs, Inc), 70 percent ethanol, and 10 percent hydrogen
peroxide (3 minute soak) between samples.
The powder was then placed in a 1.5mL microcentrifuge tube. To each tube was
added 400uL 2X CTAB buffer (w/PVPP), 5uL 10 percent SDS, and luL B¬
mercaptoethanol. The tubes were then placed in a 55°C water bath for 10-12 minutes.
During the incubation, the tubes were vigorously shaken every 3-5 minutes.
After the incubation, 500uL of 24:1 chloroform:isoamyl alcohol was added to
each tube. The tubes were gently shaken for about 5 minutes then centrifuged for 20
minutes at 12,000 rpms in a microcentrifuge.
The red to colorless supernatant (usually about 300-400uL) was removed, taking
care not to transfer any particulate matter or chloroform (green), and placed in a new 2mL
centrifuge tube. If the supernatant was not clear, it was transferred to a new 1.5mL tube
and extracted with fresh 24:1 chloroform:isoamyl alcohol. Äfter centrifuging, this
supernatant was always clear. This supernatant (approx. 150uL) was then transferred to a
new 1.SmL tube for purification.
DNA Purification
DNA purification was carried out using a GENECLEAN II kit (Bio 101, Inc) with
the following specifications/modifications: 1OuL of GLASSMILK and Nal solution of
about three times the volume of supernatant was used per sample. Only two NEW
washes were performed. DNA was resuspended in two 15uL aliquots of double
deionized sterile water.
