The heteromorphic life history of Mastocarpus has been explained by Paine et al.
(1979) with the “bet-hedging hypothesis." Crusts are long-lived and an average sized
individual, 123 cm sq., can be as old as 87 years (Paine, 1979). But crusts are also poor
establishers. Gametophytes are mostly annuals but are well adapted for establishment
and long distance dispersal by the sea. The two morphologies occupy different ecological
niches and serve different purposes in the proliferation of the genus.
M. papillatus has a disjointed range in the Pacific. It occurs from Punta Baja in
Baja California north to the Aleutian islands in Alaska (figure 2), and as smaller
populations in Japan and Chile.
Zupan and West (1988) showed that the proportion of females with fertilized to
unfertilized carpospores varied between populations in the North America range. More
specifically, the proportion of sexually reproducing plants increases from nouth to sorth.
This trend in the proportion of sexual reproduction also occurs in M. stellatus on the
Atlantic coast of Europe (Guiry and West, 1983). Zupan and West (1988) also found that
all carpospores from a single female followed only one developmental cycle, either
apomictic or sexual.
Experimental Design
The purpose of this study was to link this aspect of the life history with population
genetics. To determine a phenogram for the populations studied and resolve the
population structure, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) (Vos et al. 1995
was used to give a genetic fingerprint of each individual studied. Culturing carpospores
from each blade fingerprinted would tie the reproductive cycle of the blade to its
fingerprint and thus tell how asexual and sexual reproduction influence population
genetics in M. papillatus.
It might be expected that the high rate of mixing in a sexually reproducing
population would lead to less isolation and therefore less genetic variability and less
population structure. Less population structure was found in the southern-most
population studied, but the collection methods were not documented by the collector and
therefore results are called into question.
