Materials and Methods:
Collecting Samples
Asexual or sexual reproduction can be indicated by the culture of carpospores.
The female blades are the common phase in the two types of reproduction, making female
gametophytes ideal for sampling.
Zupan and West (1988) sampled from 8 sites in Baja California and California
from Punta Baja to Trinidad Head. I tried to approximate their sampling on a smaller
scale for this study.
Female gametophyte blades of M. papillatus were collected from three localities
on the California coast: the Santa Cruz small yacht harbor, Hopkins Marine Station in
Pacific Grove, and the University of California at Santa Barbara Marine Station (figure
3). Santa Cruz samples were collected from a stretch of shore approximately 6 meters
long, while at Hopkins Marine Station, the sampling was done over approximately 100
meters of shoreline. Samples 8, 9, and 10 from Hopkins came from rocks on the Fisher
beach (at one end of the 100m stretch) while samples 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 came from rocks on
the Bird Rocks side of Agassiz beach (at the other end of the 100m stretch), and samples
4 and 7 came from the Dive Lockers side of Agassiz beach. The collection area for the
Santa Barbara samples is unknown because they were collected by someone else, and
methods were not documented.
Santa Cruz samples were dry at low tide when collected. They were stored at
-20°C for about one week and then thawed and rehydrated in seawater before DNA
extraction. Samples from Hopkins and Santa Barbara were stored wet at 4°C overnight
before DNA extraction. This storage appeared not to make any difference for DNA
content or quality as extractions from fresh blades produced similar results to extractions
from stored blades.
DNA Extraction
The following DNA extraction procedure was scaled down from a DNA extraction procedure from Jason Smith.
Blades were prepared for DNA extraction by first rinsing in double deionized
water and removing all colonizing organisms, then scraping off all papillae and the
cuticle with a fresh razor blade. The papillae contain the carposporophytes which are a
