ABSTRACT
A study was made of the populations of intermediate sized interstitial
organisms of Del Monte Beach, Monterey California. In the summer of 1969,
this beach was closed because of sewage pollution from the city's offshore
outfall. It was expected that populations of organisms constantly exposed to
this pollution might be affected. Samples were taken at every 100 meters on a
transect runningl000 meters north and 1500 meters south. Counts were substantially
lower to the north than to the south. This appears to be correlated to the
southerly flow of the sewage as reported by several other investigators. A
general enrichment of the environment is considered to account for the increase
in population.
INTRODUCTION
As part of a research project on the sewage pollution of Monterey Bay,
a survey was undertaken of the intermediate sized interstitial organisms of
Del Monte Beach, fronting the city of Monterey. During the summer of 1969, these
beaches were closed due to a high degree of bacterial contamination. It seemed
likely that an effect might be observable in populations of organisms constantly
exposed to this pollution. The organisms studied were intermediate in size
between the protozoa, and such macrofauna of the beach as sand crabs (Emerita sp.).
The animals surveyed were nematodes, nemerteans, flatworms, annelids, and
harpacticoid copepods. Others which occured regularly but not in surveyable
numbers included amphipods and mysids. While work had been done on the general
ecology of interstitial organisms, this appears to be the first study done to
correlate their ecology to possible pollution. General studies of their ecology
include those of Pennak (1951) and Swedmark (1964).
METHODS
From the location where the pipe from the Monterey sewage treatment plant
crosses the beach, running to the offshore outfall, a transect was established
with stations every hundred meters for 1000 meters north and for 1500 meters south.
The southern transect terminated at Monterey Municipal wharf f2. Sand samples
were taken at the same tidal height and stage of the tide once a week for three
weeks with a core 8cm deep and approximately 4cm in diameter to produce a sample
of 100 cc. The samples were stained and preserved with a mixture of rose bengal
and isopropyl alcohol. The organisms were counted by spreading loc sub-samples
in Syracuse dishes, adding water, and spinning so that a layer of sand grains was
produced over which the stained organisms (which were slightly bouyant) could be
easily seen. A count was also taken of the organisms caught when the preservative
fluid was filtered off.
