The grain size of the sand is relatively constant along the portion of the
beach in question, with most sand grains having a diameter of O.2 — O.5 mm.
At 1500 meters south, however, there are large pebbles scattered in the sand.
The sand from the ends of the transectare indistinguishable in size, though
the sand form the southern end is darker. Temperature (as measured off shore
in another survey) varies only 0.2° C along the survey length. Salinity variations
offshore also do not appear to be significant
It seems reasonable to
assume that without any great variation in these factors in the offshore waters,
then a similar homogeneity can be expected in this regard along the length of
the beach. Other parameters of the interstitial environment such as dissolved
oxygen or the chemical composition of the water are very difficult to measure
in situ. Zinn (1968) mentions the development and testing of such a measuring
device. No such measurements were attempted in this study.
The problem of wave action is somewhat more difficult to assess, since there
is an appreciable difference in the intensity of wave action along the length of
the transect. At the extreme southern end the wave action is slight with the
waves being less than O.1 meters in height, while at the farthest north station,
waves of O.4 — 0.7 meters are present. As there are no major obstructions or
topographic anomalies along the beach, it seems likely that the height and
intensity of wave action increases in a continuous and smooth function up the
length of the beach. This is in contrast to the population distribution.
There is a large field of kelp on a bed of slate to the south of the outfall.
The influence of this on the interstitial environment ashore is not known.
If the changes of the beach population were independent of sewage pollution,
then it would be unlikely that any significant change in the population could be
relatable to the presence of the outfall. A semi-log plot of the counts grouped
in 300 meter groups in both directions from the pipe shows a definite change in
slope in the vicinity of the outfall. This method of presentation indicates more
clearly the major trend along the beach by reducing the random variations in
individual samples.
Studies of the Monterey outfall indicate that some of the sewage comes ashore
near the outfall. Trumbauer (1966) shows the highest coli-form counts within
200 meters of the outfall. His report also mentions that the area of highest
concentrations is quite variable, with peaks often occuring far to the south.
As has been noted before, coli-form organisms have certain limitations when used
in sewage tracking.
228.
