A more informative study was that done by Stevenson (1964) of the water
circulation pattern off Del Monte Beach. In 10 surveys, a southward drift
was reported six times, a northward drift twice, and on shore drifts, normal to
the beach twice. He utilized drogues released seaward from the boil. He
concluded that the major factor in water movement in this area is wind. The
major wind component in May is from the north 30% ofthe time, northwest 33% and
northeast 5%. (Data from U. S. Navy Meteorological Atlas - North Pacific). This
wind pattern would give a southerly flow during the month of May. The finding
is supported by the dye tracking study and chemical analysis of Blencowe (personal
communication) and the diving observations of Baxter and Webster (personal
communication). These divers, participating in a benthic survey, report the
observation of what appears to be a visible sewage field moving to the south.
CONCLUSIONS
The result of the sewage pollution produced by the Monterey sewage treatment
plant is an enrichment of the populations of interstitial organisms to the
south of the outfall where a large amount of the sewage appears to be moving.
The sewage could be enriching the beach environment directly by providing
readily absorbable nutrients, it could be providing basic nutrients which would
promote the growth of bacteria, algae and fungi, or it could be providing a
constant supply of bacteria (live or dead) on which the organisms could be
feeding. Not enough is known about the viability of fecal bacteria in sea
water, the decay of complex organic molecules in seawater, or even about the
biology of these particular organisms to conclude which of the enrichment
mechanisms is most likely to be in operation.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Acknowledgement is gratefully made to Dr. E. H. Wheeler for his advice and
encouragement on this project and to Dr. Welton Lee and Dr. Donald Abbott for
assisting in the identification of some specimens. This study was supported
by grant 617280 of the National Science Foundation.
28.
