24
RESULTS
The results of the counts are shown in Table 1. The tabulated values are
the means of the three weekly counts. At 100 south and 500 north, additional
samples were taken to refine the value of those stations which seemed extremely
variable. All counts are innumbers of organisms per l0cc. The third category
lumps nemerteans and flatworms together because of the low counts and the dif-
ficulty of differentiating preserved individuals of these two similar groups.
Graph 1 shows the total number of organisms of all categories per lOcc
plotted against distance. The line is the connection of the individual means
while the vertical lines are the standard deviations of the samples at each
station.
Graph 2 is the population of nematodes plotted against distance from the
outfall. As can be seen by comparison with the first curve, the nematodes
are the largest constituent in the total population, and the variation in the
total population is largely a function of the variation of the nematode population.
Graph 3 displays the distribution of annelids in the population, primarily
a Phyllodocid worm, possibly Eteone dilatae. As can be seen from the graph, the
population of this worm increases with distance north of the outfall. The populations
of the other organisms are not graphed because they did not appear to show any
definable trend over the length of the survey.
DISCUSSION
A general trend in distribution appears to be evident along the length of
this survey. The counts of the nematodes show a major change in the first 100
meters on either side of the outfall pipe. To the south the abundances are
consistently high with a variation that could be accounted for by the variation
in sampling. To the north, however, the population falls off sharly with increasing
distance from the outfall. The population of the annelid worm exhibits a reversal
of this trend, increasing with distance north. This would seem to indicate a
general ecological variance between the northern and southern half of the survey
There are several reasons for believing that the effect is related to
sewage pollution. The first is the relative homogeneity of the beach environment
along the length of the survey. The second is the abrupt change in the curve at
the area of the outfall. The third is the nature of the sewage field around the
Monterey outfall.
Several ecological factors important to the distribution of interstitial
organisms are relatively constant along the length of this beach, or else vary
in a manner inconsistent with the observed variation in the population.
