Behavioral Relationships Between Copepods and Sea Anemones
were highly specific to seperate types of copepods. Comparisons of
mucus from the different anemones could shed further light on this
problem. It was also interesting to note that copepods were immune
to all anemones of the same species, even when collected from widely
different areas. (Carton, 1963. Bouligand, 1966)
t was discovered that interspecific transfers of copepods elicit
dual recognition of foreignness by both the anemone and the copepod.
An anemone, when touched by a foreign copepod, immediately exhibits
a vigorous feeding response, yet nematocysts do not discharge. The
anemone somehow 'recognizes" the copepod as prey, yet the cue causing
nematocyst discharge is lacking. The copepod also exhibits a swimming
avoidance behavior away from the anemone. This swimming behavior was
never seen by copepods on their host anemone. Experiments using ex¬
cised anemone tentacles show that copepods will cling tenaceously to
tentacles of their host, yet will remain indifferent towards tentacles
of a different anemone species. It appears then, that the copepod's
avoidance behavior is a response to the anemone's sudden movements,
and not avoidance of the anemone tissue itself.
Copepods living on Tealia lofotensis and Tealia crassicornis showed
a preference for zones in which their color matched that of the anemone.
jecause white copopods inhabiting T. lofotensis are not camouflaged
anywhere on the anemone, one would not expect these copepods to prefer
any particular zone. Table 3 shows that the white copepods show an
equal preference for either the tentacle bases or the tentacles of the
of the anemone, which are brown-green and red respectively.
This color blending of copepods to anemones was shown in the other
anemones as well. Copepods on all six species of anemone were generally
found to be the same color as the anemone. Copepods with blue egg
sacs were found on blue Epiactus prolifera, light green copepods were
