Abstract
Juvenile salmon sharks beach yearly along the California coast during late
summer and early fall. To determine the epidemiological condition of beached animals,
frozen and formalin fixed beached specimens were collected from various Fish and Game
facilities for examination and freshly beached specimens were also examined when
possible. Histology revealed meningoencephalitis with intralesional bacteria in almost all
of the specimens, including the freshly beached sharks, suggesting that this infection
plays a role in this unusual behavior. The pathogenic bacteria was cultured from four
separate shark specimens, and each isolate was characterized serologically and
biochemically as belonging to the genus Carnobacteria. In order to identify the species,
we sequenced -540 bp of the 16s ribosomal DNA and a similarly sized portion of the
large ribosomal DNA intergenic spacer (ITS or ISR). The 16s sequences obtained from
all samples were identical and 99% similar to C. piscicola. The ISR sequences obtained
from all samples were also identical to each other, but were only 92% homologous to C.
piscicola, and did not match closely with any other sequence in GenBank. This is the
first report of Carnobacterium infection in any shark species, though the identity of the
pathogenic bacteria remains uncertain.
Introduction
During the summer and fall of every year, young salmon sharks (£ Im in length)
are found beached along the coast of California. To determine the cause of this unusual
behavior, eleven beached salmon sharks representing the past three years' beachings were
collected and analyzed histologically. Bacterial meningitis was noted in almost all of the
brains by pathologist Dr. Corrine Davis at the Research Animal Facility (RAF) of the
Stanford University Comparative Medicine Department. Bacteria were successfully
cultured by microbiologist Dr. Barry Lifland at RAF from the brain tissue of four freshly
beached specimens. Standard microbiological tests were performed to determine the type
of bacteria that appeared to be infecting these sharks, and the field was narrowed down to
the generus of Carnobacteria.
Species of Carnobacteria are found frequently in the intestine and gills of both
fresh and salt water fishes, in aquaculture and in wild populations (eg Ringo et al., 2000;
