Materials and Methods

Specimens of Aplysia californica, were attained from Sea Life
supply (Sand City, CA) and Marinus Animals(southern California).
They weighed from 100-500 grams and were placed in tanks with
continuously running sea water from Monterey Bay. The abdominal
ganglia (Figure 1) was isolated, transferred to a plastic dish lined with
silgard, and immersed in artificial sea water (ASW).
After 1 hour treatment with dispase enzyme and 1 hour of ASW
wash at 10 degrees celsius, the sheath of the abdominal ganglia was
spliced away, using special forceps and a razor blade chip. Select
parts of the ganglia were removed, exposing the R15 cell and the left
quadrant bursting cells.
Kwik-fil glass capillaries were utilized. The microelectrodes,
which measured the membrane potential, were filled with 3 M KCL,
and a silver wire which was plated with silver chloride represented
the electrical contact between the KCL solution and the amplifier. The
microelectrodes had resistances of 1-5 megaohms.
Membrane potential was monitered by utilizing a microelectrode
amplifier and was recorded on a chart recorder. Data were
analyzed by hand and plotted using computer program Lotus-123.
Äfter desheathing, an exposed bursting pacemaker cell such as R-

15 or a left upper quadrant cell was impaled by a microelectrode
while a constant perfusion system was running with ASW(Figure 2)
The perfusion system was constituted by a drip system which flowed
at a constant rate and a suction system which removed excess saline.
The experiment consisted of a series of physiological saline changes
beginning with artificial sea water and then alternating this control
with sea water containing varied amounts of calcium. Each saline
washed over the animal for 15-60 minutes, and measurements were
obtained through out the entire experiment. The solutions were
altered once the cell appeared to reach a steady state in that saline.
The last 10-15 periods of bursting were selectively chosen for
analyzation to ensure that the changed solution had surrounded the
cell.
