Kirsten Mattern
To specifically observe which food type Gaussia prefers and to determine
how they capture their microscopic prey, I superglued individual Gaussia to a
fine glass rod and suspended it in a sealed glass flask through which Ilet water
flow with the different food types.  observed the Gaussia under a microscope
with white light. The cold temperature was maintained by packing ice around the
flask. The appendages of the Gaussia and the food types were clearly visible
under these circumstances.
To observe individuals under each food condition, 1 placed 12 Gaussia in
12 separate glass tubes 4 inches tall and 1 inch in diameter. Three tubes had no
food and served as the control, three had phytoplankton, three had brine shrimp
nauplii, and the last three had zooplankton. I maintained the tubes in a 500
water bath. The tubes were also kept in the dark when not being observed.
When I studied these tubes, I took them out of their water bath and set them
under the different light types for 10 minute intervals to see whether the Gaussia
displayed different behavior patterns under the different food conditions. Äfter
the first week, I cleaned the tubes and rotated the food types, excluding the
control tubes. I repeated this process after the second week of observations so
each set of copepods was exposed to each food type.
defined two types of behavior most often seen during my initial
observations. One, the dart, is an abrupt voluntary swimming movement that
was not a result of touching or colliding with another individual. Second, the
side is a behavior where the individual hangs upsidedown facing the current,
either with its dorsal or ventral side facing the tank wall. My observations of this
copepod activity included watching them for 30 minute intervals and recording
how often each type of behavior occurred per minute. I broke these time
intervals into three 10 minute periods, each time using a different light source.
observed the Gaussia for these 30 minutes under four different food conditions:
