Kirsten Mattern
sides of the tank was also accompanied by the antennae movement. This may
indicate that the Gaussia are suspension feeders, a strategy employed by the
shallow-water algal feeders. In their natural habitat, Gaussia may be sinking
while moving their antennae then moving upwards by the darting behavior, such
as the cruise and sink method Greene (1988) attributed to omnivourous
copepods. Based on data from shallow-water copepods, (Tiselius and Jonsson,
1990) the ambush method may be eliminated as a strategy of the Gaussia
because they continuously move their mouthparts. The Gaussia may then be
either suspension feeders or cruising feeders, depending on the current velocity,
and their prey preference could be either herbivorous or omnivorous.
Buskey, et al. (1989) found that certain oceanic copepods found ca 80m
showed negative phototaxis over a wide range of light intensities, that is, the
copepods were found in sections farthest from the light. Such copepods would
then migrate downwards during the day and towards the water surface at night.
This differs from the coastal and estuarine vertically migrating copepods which
stay towards the bottom but within the photosensitive zone during the day
According to Buskey et al. (1989) the maximum photosensitivity displayed by the
deep-water copepods corresponded to the light wavelengths most prevalent in
their environment and to the wavelengths of most marine bioluminescence. The
exact effect of light on vertical migration is not clear. It is clear, however, that
light can be used to predict the position of copepods if their photosensitivity
thresholds are known. Light affects where the copepod is during a 24 hour
period, and prey types at certain depths affect what strategy the copepod uses in
its particular environment to capture the prey.
Gaussia showed no differences in activity under any wavelength, white
red or UV. Because they are deep-water copepods, they may be insensitive to
the red and UV light because these light wavelengths are absorbed at a depth
