Kirsten Mattern
maxillipeds orients the copepod to capture the section of water containing the
algae. Only the water containing the algae is pushed through the bristles on the
second maxillae. The food particles are transferred to the mouth via the first
maxillae. The preferred prey is phytoplankton, and these copepods can scan the
water they filter for certain food. Captured prey can be ingested or rejected.
Greene (1988) characterized the same filtering tactic used by the suspension
feeding calanoids. He also described the omnivorous and carnivorous calanoids
that recognize prey and seize the prey raptorially with the second maxillae and
maxillipeds then use their first maxillae to guide the prey to their mouths. Greene
(1988) stressed the strong interaction between feeding and swimming because
these behaviors utilize the same appendages. He characterized three foraging
tactics: the suspension feeders who remain stationary, the cruising, raptorial
predators, and the omnivorous calanoids who employ a 'cruise and sink
behavior. Tiselius and Jonsson (1990) described three hydrodynamically based
foraging strategies of shallow-water calanoids. Stationary feeding is a balance
between gravity and upward thrust, cruising copepods encounter more prey and
can approach these prey in a hydrodynamically quieter manner than the
stationary feeders, and the ambush predators sink slowly and passively and are
hydrodynamically quieter than both the stationary and cruising calanoids. The
time the calanoids spend moving their mouthparts is a measure of their foraging
strategy. The upward thrust created by this movement counteracts the sinking
brought about by gravity so the stationary feeders exhibit continuous movement
while the ambush predators should only use their mouthparts to capture the prey.
Gaussia exhibit the continuous movement of the mouthparts, or
antennae, both in the presence and absence of food. These calanoids also sank
to the tank floor and to the bottom of the glass tubes in the absence of a current,
vet continued the movement. When in the tank, the upside down position on the
