Figures
Fig.1
A flow chart of the general protocol used in an attempt to purify the granules from
Conus californicus. This chart focuses on the Ficoll-sucrose discontinuous,
velocity sedimentation process because it appeared more efficient than the
original sucrose gradient. The progression of the granules from the intact
specimen to the Ficoll-sucrose pellet is emphasized by the red words.
Fig. 2A Schematic representation of the Ficoll-sucrose gradient, which was based on a
modified protocol by Cameron and Castle, 1984. The concentrations of sucrose
and Ficoll are shown in the gradient. The volume utilized for each layer is shown
on the outside.
Fig.2B Schematic representation of the Ficoll-sucrose gradient after ultracentrifugation.
There was a thin, white band under the top layer, which may contain very small
granules. The Ficoll pellet, shown at the bottom of the tube, contained large,
dense granules.
Fig.3A Microscopic view at 60X of the granules in seawater. The granules are from the
pellet of the Ficoll-sucrose gradient. They appear numerous and of many
different sizes.
Fig.3B Microscopic view at 60X of a clump of granules from the same sample. Many of
the granules appeared bunched together under the microscope since it was
difficult to suspend the pellet in seawater.
Fig. 4A Scanning electron micrograph of several granules that are 3-4 um in diameter.
Fig.4B Close up of the granule at the far left of Fig. 4A The surface appears very
convoluted and misshapen due to the ethanol step-dehydration process necessary
to fix the granules for scanning electron microscopy.
Fig. 4C Micrograph of a venom duct granule. The granule appears very dense and is 6
um in diameter.
Fig.4D Intact granules that withstood the dehydration process. Out of approximately 100
granules, only these two remained intact. The granules appear very dense with a
smooth surface.
Fig.
Initial 10% SDS-PAGE acrylamide gel with results from sucrose discontinuous
velocity sedimentation. Molecular weights (kDa) are listed to the left and the
description of the sample is listed below each lane. The top arrow indicates the
49 kDa bands and the bottom arrow denotes the 25 kDa bands. This initial gel was
used to determine the effectiveness of the sucrose gradient in isolating C.
californicus granules and to approximate sample concentrations for future gels.
