cascades have thus far been identified in four groups of animals: mammals,
amphibians, fish, and crustaceans. The widespread presence of a dual signal
transduction pathway in olfaction implies that it plays a fundamental role. The
two signaling pathways mediated by cyclic nucleotides and IP3 have been shown
to be differentially sensitive to the same odorants (Ache and Zhainazarov, 1995)
This suggests that these pathways work in parallel but that there is crosstalk
between them. It is hypothesized that these dual pathways are able to integrate a
broader range of information possibly representing a blend of odorants.
The vertebrate model suggests that odorants lead to an transient increase
in intracellular cyclic nucleotide levels. Cyclic nucleotides then activate a cyclic
nucleotide gated-channel to produce an inward current of Nat and Ca+t which
activates the cell (Zufall et al., 1994). There may also be a pathway in vertebrates
mediated by IP3, however information concerning this is not yet complete.
The present model based on the lobster suggests that upon activation the
cyclic nucleotide-gated channel produces an outward current of K+ that inhibits
the cell (Michel and Ache, 1992). For the IP3 pathway there is suggestion of
possibly two IP3-gated channels which differ in conductance; their selectivity
however has not yet been determined (Fadool and Ache, 1992). Upon activation,
IP3-gated channels are thought to excite olfactory receptor neurons (Fadool and
Ache, 1992). There is also some suggestion of an IP4-gated channel in lobster
with a much larger conductance (Hatt and Ache, 1994).
Using the hermit crab, Pagurus samuelis as a model system, I hope to gain a
better understanding of invertebrate olfaction by determining whether the model
of olfaction based on the lobster applies to other invertebrates. Patch clamp
techniques were used to study single cyclic nucleotide- and IP3-gated channels.
It is demonstrated that application of cGMP and IP3 to the inner face of excised
inside-out patches of the dendritic membrane from hermit crab olfactory receptor
