Abstract:
Changes in the activity of glycolytic enzymes in response to hypoxic stress have been observed in
many different species. I examined the enzymatic response of Gillichthys mirabilis (common name;
longjawed mudsucker; family Gobiidae) to hypoxia. The critical oxygen tension (P.) for G. mirabilis, the
tension below which the rate of oxygen consumption precipitously drops, was approximately 1.1 mg/L. I
subjected 26 fish to hypoxic stress by reducing the 1021 in their aquarium to 0.3 +0.1 mg/L below their P.,
0.8 mg/L. Fish were sacrificed at three time points after the onset of hypoxic stress: 0, 8, 24, and 72 hours.
Tassayed liver and white muscle tissue from each fish for activities of 5 enzymes involved in anaerobic
catabolism of glucose: phosphoglucoisomerase, enolase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase and
hexokinase (liver only). No significant change in any of these glycolytic enzymes was observed,
indicating that the concentrations of these enzymes do not change during 72 hours of hypoxia. I also
assayed liver and white muscle for the concentration of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (F-2,6-BP), a potent
activator of phosphofructokinase, a rate-governing enzyme of the glycolytic pathway. Significant increases
in F-2,6-BP levels were observed between the 0 and 8 hour time points in the liver and between the O and
72 hour time points in white muscle. It is likely that the increase in F-2,6-BP levels promotes an increase
in glycolytic flux to compensate for decreased aerobic ATP production under hypoxic conditions. Thus,
modulation of pre-existing glycolytic enzymes, rather than increased concentration of the enzymes, seems
to be responsible for elevating glycolytic activity during hypoxia.
Introduction:
The longjawed mudsucker, Gillichthys mirabilis (family Bobiidae), is often found
in the mud flats of tidal estuarine environments. Although the natural history of the
mudsucker has not been fully elucidated, it has long been hypothesized that the
mudsucker may burrow into the mud as the tide goes out. Furthermore, G. mirabilis has
been found in the burrows of several different estuarine crustaceans (1). Oxygen levels
drop to zero at only a few inches depth of mud. Likewise, oxygen concentrations in the
