Figure Legends
Fig. 1. Predation on Balanus glandula and Chthamalus spp. by Nucella emarginata in
laboratory experiment. Bars on left are the percent of the rock surface covered by each
barnacle species. Bars on right are measurements of the percent of the whelk's diet
belonging to each barnacle species. (n = 3 tubs, 1869 barnacles).
Fig. 2. Relationship between abundance of Balanus glandula and Nucella emarginata on
China Pt. N. emarginata were sampled in 25 m’ quadrats, and a .01 m’ quadrat was
chosen randomly within the .25 m’ quadrat to sample barnacle abundance. (n = 95
quadrats)
Fig. 3. Relationship between abundance of Chthamalus spp. and Nucella emarginata on
China Pt. N. emarginata were sampled in 25 m’ quadrats, and a .01 m2 quadrat was
chosen randomly within the .25 m’ quadrat to sample barnacle abundance. (n= 95
quadrats)
Fig. 4. Vertical distributions of Balanus glandula and Chthamalus spp. in the intertidal
zone at China Pt. Densities based on counts in .01 m2 quadrats. (n= 95 quadrats)
Fig. 5. Vertical distributions of Balanus glandula and Chthamalus spp. in the intertidal
zone at Breakwater Cove. Densities based on counts in .01 m’ quadrats. (n= 55
quadrats)
Fig. 6. Relationship between abundance of Balanus glandula and of Chthamalus spp. in
quadrats. Data from Breakwater Cove and China Pt. are combined. (n= 150 quadrats)
g. 7. Variation in mean abundances of barnacles between vertical transects on China
2t. Transects were placed perpendicular to shore, from the highest barnacle to the lowest
barnacle, spaced unevenly over an area with a total spread of 20 meters. Means are based
of 15 quadrats per transect.
Fig. 8. Variation in mean abundances of barnacles between vertical transects in
Breakwater Cove. Transects were placed perpendicular to shore, from the highest
barnacle to the lowest barnacle, spaced unevenly over an area with a total spread of 20
meters. Means are based on 10 quadrats per transect. Transect four (with much lower
abundances of both species) ran through an area of smaller cobbles which had lower
abundances of barnacles.
