INTRODUCTION
As habitat for intertidal organisms, tidepools are extremely variable. Basic conditions
such as temperature, salinity, submersion, and pool size change with each low tide. Longer term
shifts in tidal patterns occur seasonally and interannually and less cyclic environmental
disturbances, such as El Ninno occur at longer intervals. All of these factors make a tidepool a
relatively unpredictable habitat. Yet, for smaller fish, tidepools serve as refuges from the intense
predation by larger fish in the more stable subtidal zone and they serve as refuges within the
intertidal during low tide, allowing the fish to avoid desiccation and other perils of emersion.
In comparison with sessile intertidal organisms, such as barnacles, mussels and
anemones, sculpins have the ability to adjust their location behaviorally within the intertidal.
Habitat selection by intertidal cottids has been well studied. Degree of cover-whether it be
vegetation or rock structures—is an important factor. Mollick (1968) found that C. analis
prefers dark, densely-matted plant substrates and crevices. Richkus (1978,1980) observed that
amount of cover was correlated with distribution of C. analis, and found that fish in artificial
tidepools in the lab tended to select deeper and more protected pools. Wells (1986) observed
higher population densities in pools with moderate to heavy cover. And Davis (2000) also
concluded that a large amount of rocky cover was one of the preferred characteristics of C.
analis habitat.
Habitat selection implies the existence of a behavioral response to environmental
conditions. In sculpins this behavior has an added layer of complexity. Not only do sculpins
actively distribute themselves among suitable habitats, but they also remember these habitats and
return to them. This behavior is termed homing. Intertidal sculpins leave pools at high tide and
return, or "home," to these pools at successive low tides (Williams, 1957; Richkus, 1978;
Yoshiyama, 1992). The closely related tidepool sculpin, Oligocottus maculosis, homes to its
pool of capture when displaced 100 meters away or after a period of captivity of six months
(Green, 1971). The mechanism that sculpins use to home has not been identified, although
olfaction, and to a lesser extent, vision play significant roles (Khoo, 1974). Previous research
