undiluted dosage, pools were partway drained, a few drops of clove oil added, and all fish
caught. Fish were transferred to a bucket of fresh seawater, taken from the same pool prior to
treatment, and appeared to recover very quickly. Fish were then identified to species, measured
to the nearest .01 cm, tagged and returned to the tidepools. Tidepools were thoroughly flushed
with fresh sea-water to dilute traces of clove oil. Tranquilization was later abandoned because of
feasibility of capturing untranquilized fish and the desire not to alter temperatures in drained
pools by flushing after application of clove oil. Also, it was feared that partial tranquilization
would aggravate the motionless behavior described above and actually compromise capture
rates.
Fish were marked using silicon-based elastamer paints, injected from an insulin syringe
Marks were subcutaneous, on the ventral surface, to either side of the anal fin. Marking on the
dorsal surface to facilitate recognition of fish from above without disturbing them by capture was
ineffectual because of the high concentration of skin pigments there. Ventral marking has
minimal effect on swimming abilities and is inconspicuous from above. All fish, with the
exception of fish in pools F and G (released within 3 m of their pools of capture) were released
into their pools of capture after preliminary surveys.
Temperatures were recorded using programmable temperature recorders (i-buttons '94.
Dallas Semiconductor). Volumes were taken when pools were fully isolated by pumping water
into calibrated 18-liter buckets. Population densities were calculated based on the number of
fishes present and the volume of a pool at a particular survey; these values were compared to
homing rates of the following survey. Depths were measured at the lowest point of the pool.
Rugosity was measured qualitatively, following Bennett and Griffiths (1984), on a scale from
one to five—five being the most rugose (pools which were covered entirely in uneven rocky
shelter) and one being the least rugose (pools with entirely smooth sand or rock bottoms and
sides).
Statistics were carried out using analysis of variance on Systat 8.0.
