for fish, causing the fish to dart away. This was not observed in pools at normal volumes. In
one instance, a small Pachygrapsus successfully captured an unmarked C. analis
Qualitative measures of rugosity taken for each pool at normal and drained volumes
(except for the control) showed that treatment caused general decreases in rugosity (Fig. 4).
Depending on the topography of the individual pools, draining reduced the number of crevices
and rocks available for cover. In certain pools (E, N, and R) draining restricted fish to sand-
covered low spots with very little rocky cover.
DISCUSSION
The lack of any difference in rates of homing between treatment groups, while unexpected,
might be the result of a number of things. Disturbance of fish by capture and marking may have
played a role in the homing rates seen. Since handling techniques were the same in all pools the
effect of this factor would be equal for all treatments. If the effect of handling were very large,
then it may have obscured more subtle trends in homing between the different treatments.
Unfortunately, the creation of a wholly unmanipulated set of controls was unsuccessful in the
early stages of this experiment. Richkus (1978) reported homing rates of 30% after two weeks,
compared to 34% in my experiment at the end of one week. Because both homing and total
sculpin population decreased over time, Richkus (1978) asserted that handling was not an
influence on homing. The higher rates of homing in my experiment suggest a similar lack of
disturbance from handling. Ideally, replicate studies with procedural controls must be done to
confirm this.
Graham (1970) found that lethal temperatures for C. analis are between 25째 and 27째 C.
The upper temperature of tidepools in which C. analis naturally is found is 22째C (Wells, 1986)
Temperatures in my experimental pools did not exceed 22째C at any time and were several
degrees cooler on every day but May 16. Thus lack of a thermal stress may explain why fish
continued to home to drained pools.
Although early observations both in the laboratory (Richkus, 1980) and in the field
