RESULTS
The average of homing in all pools was 34% (Table 1). Average size of all fish was 4.38
cm and of homing fish, 3.78cm. Of the 101 fish tagged in experimental pools, 39, or 38% were
never seen again. Three fish were seen in pools other than those in which they were captured.
All three were found in other experimental pools less than 12 m away and were smaller than 3.7
cm.
There were no significant differences in homing between treatment groups or between
times (two-factor ANOVA, all P 2.53; Table 2). Fish in drained and moderate pools homed to
the same extent as fish in unmanipulated controls. Since the interaction of treatment factors and
time was not significant, the interaction and error Mean Squares were pooled for tests of main
effects.
The lack of significant differences in homing among treatments led me to examine the
degree of actual disturbance introduced by the experimental treatments. Drained pools reached
higher maximum temperatures than control and moderate pools, which were more similar to one
another (Fig. 1). Maximum temperatures in moderate pools on May 18th, May 20th, and May
24th were unusually low. A downward trend in maximum temperatures is apparent during the
experiment and is the result of the times of low tides shifting towards from mid-day to evening,
and eventually early morning (May 24).
Volumes were reduced by 78-98% in pools that were drained. This necessarily resulted
in a large change in density of fish (Fig. 2). Densities increased from less than 0.5 fish per liter
at normal volume to up to 5 fish per liter at drained volume. No pattern was evident between
original volume of the pool and density of fish. No aggressive interactions were observed
between fish in drained pools. There was no apparent relationship between homing and fish
density (Fig. 3).
Other intertidal fish observed in pools were Clinocottus recalvus and juvenile
pricklebacks. Increased density of other intertidal species caused heightened activity in the small
volume of water, especially among hermit crabs, which were observed grabbing with their claws
