has attributed homing behavior to the necessity of avoiding the large area of the intertidal that
become uninhabitable during low tide—either due to emersion or adverse thermal or chemical
conditions in tidepools. Although many tidepools with favorable conditions are available as the
tide goes out, not all will remain so, and certain changes, such as maximum temperatures.
ultimate low-tide pool size, and duration of isolation, are difficult to predict with any other
means than experience, i.e. presence in the pool at a previous low tide. Thus, the reliance on
pools with favorable conditions based on previous experience with those pools is hypothesized to
be the motivation for homing behavior.
The purpose of this study was to assess the plasticity of homing behavior by observing
responses of C. analis to unfavorable conditions imposed experimentally on pools to which they
home. I hypothesized that if fish can recognize and relocate favorable pools, they should be
able to recognize and avoid unfavorable conditions should they arise in a fish's home pool.
Experimental tidepools were made unfavorable by regular draining at low tide. Substantial
changes in temperature, fish density and rugosity were seen but without a concurrent change in
the degree of homing.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Sculpin homing was observed during May, 2001, in a region of the rocky intertidal zone
at Hopkins Marine Stations in Pacific Grove, California. The study site consisted of a series of
tidepools, within a 30 m radius in a moderately-protected zone. Pools which were too large,
deep, or crevice-filled to ensure high capture rates were not used in the experiment.
Pools were observed for one week. Due to logistic and time constraints, only four pools
at most could be surveyed in a low tide. The week-long experiments were staggered over a
period of two weeks for different sets of pools, from May 14th-May 27th. Low tides during this
time were in the middle of the day to late afternoon until May 22nd, and in the early morning
thereafter until May 28th.
Experimental treatment consisted of draining pools one to two hours before the low tide,
