and leaving those pools drained for the duration of the low tide. Sufficient volume was left for
fish to be fully submerged and mobile, but draining usually reduced their habitat to a very
shallow and exposed body of water at the bottom of the tidepool. The treatment was conducted
at three levels: daily draining, moderate draining, and no draining. Four pools were not drained
at all and served as controls (“controls:” F, H, J, and O). Five additional pools were drained 3
days of the 7-day observation period ("moderate:" N, E, P, Q, R), and two pools were drained
every day of the observation period (“drained:" G, M). Pools were surveyed at three times:
before treatment ("preliminary"), on the first day of treatment ("initial"), at day three ("mid¬
treatment"), and at day seven (“final"). In a few pools, preliminary surveys were not made, due
to time constraints.
At each survey, pools were thoroughly searched with dip-nets and probes for fishes. I
examined crevices, algal cover and any other shelter that might conceal fishes. Fishes typically
darted out of hiding when disturbed and either retreated to another crevice or remained
motionless in the open. In the latter case, the fish was surrounded with two medium-sized dip
nets at an angle and driven into them with a hand motioning from a third direction. This process
was repeated until 1 was confident that nearly all fish were caught. Capture rates were not in all
cases 100%. An additional 5-10% of fish probably evaded capture, since certain fish would take
refüge in visible crevices, from which they would not move even when prodded. As visibility is
essential for capture, fishes that exhibited this behavior when out of sight, were undetectable.
Although this is a serious possible bias in the experiment, it is somewhat lessened by the
apparent lack of a "capture bias" in pools with 100% estimated capture rate. Capturing fish in
these pools was no more difficult than capturing marked fish; it is therefore hoped that samples
of the entire population in other pools would be representative, if not complete. All captured
fish were measured, identified to species, and released. During the preliminary and initial
surveys all fish were also marked
During preliminary surveys (except in the case of pools N, O, P, Q and R) clove oil was
used to partially tranquilize fish (M. Webster pers. comm.). In order to apply a relatively
