(Richkus, 1978) suggested that C. analis was highly non-aggressive, more recent studies have
suggested that C. analis is in fact one of the more aggressive species of the cottid family. It has
recently been suggested that (no comma) in the large area of California coast where it is the most
abundant species, C. analis might be competitively excluding other cottids from tidepool habitat
(Gibson, 1999). Such aggression occurs at the intraspecific level as well. Size may be a factor
correlated with aggression. Yoshiyama (198 1) observed marked intraspecific aggression by
larger fish in laboratory settings. Small fish were nonassertive, but upon reaching 5-6 cm fish
would invariably develop aggressive behavior. If this is true in the field, it may offer insight into
why homing behavior did not change in my experiment. Aggressive interactions may have been
minimal, given that the majority of fish in each pool were under 5 cm. Draining pools may have
incited little change in stress due to aggression, and therefore little effect on the homing behavior
of experimental pool populations.
Interspecific density was a large source of potential disturbance. Heightened activity of
other tidepool organisms had the effect of harassing resident sculpins. Why it did not cause
distinct changes in homing rates is unclear, especially considering the predatory nature of most
of this activity. However, only one actual injury was observed during the entire experiment
(inflicted by a Pachygrapsus) so it is assumed that most attacks were unsuccessful, and did not
cause sufficient disturbance to alter homing behavior.
Rugosity is an important factor in the habitat selection of C. analis. That substantial
changes in rugosity did not result in any subsequent change in homing behavior is puzzling-
especially given that previous experimental manipulations decreasing rugosity in the field have
resulted in definite declines in pool populations of C. analis (Davis, 2000). This result implies
one of three things: 1) that qualitative measurements of rugosity were not accurate enough,2) that
rugosity changes, however large, did not cause a significant impact on fishes, or 3) that the time
scale of the experiment was not sufficient to observe a downward trend in homing rates in
drained pools. Of these possibilities, the latter is the most probable.
In conclusion, it is quite plausible that the extremely limited scope of this experiment—in
