Visual learning in the common cuttlefish, page 5
The raising of the tubes in Tank One was also considered a potential problem in the
experiment. Perhaps the animal could be associating the reward with the tubes being raised
instead of the presence of the correct stimulus. In an attempt to control for this, there were
tubes placed at the base of each stimulus, and the tubes were raised simultaneously during
the course of the experiment. Observations of trials also led to the conclusion that the
animal was reacting to the stimulus before any motion of the tube. However, perhaps
because of an ability to associate a chain of events with the reward, or because of the
apparent wariness due to the raising of the tubes (discussed below), the animal was
observed several times waiting to approach until the tubes had actually been raised for a
few seconds.
The distance that the animal would approach the stimulus before the tubes were raised
was affected by this choice of experimental set-up. In many trials, the animal had
approached the stimulus, but was disturbed by the raising of the tubes. In such cases, the
animal would jet away, flash the pseudo-eye spots on the mantle characteristic of a
defensive position, or simply undergo a rapid color change.
This problem was avoided in the second experimental tank. However, the second set-
up had the problem of non-linkage between the stimulus and the food reward. In every
trial, the feeding chute was located in the same place, but the location of the stimulus was
changed. Because the opening of the food chute was near the surface of the water, the crab
was often able to swim quite a distance from the initial point of entry. Once, a crab was
observed to swim halfway across the tank from the chute before touching the bottom of the
tank. This could, perhaps, have contributed to the length of time it took the animal in this
experiment to learn. It was also not reflected in the scoring paradigm, as that included
simply the orientation and distance of the animal with respect to the light stimulus, and not
toward the food chute, as was observed in several of the later trials.
A more ideal experimental set-up would have a self-rewarding system that requires
the animal to approach within a certain distance of the stimulus, or to actually attack the
stimulus, in order to receive the reward. Perhaps, too, a negative factor could be
incorporated, as this has been shown to increase the speed at which animals learn (Boal,
1996). Within the time available for this experiment, however, it was not possible to
incorporate these features into the experimental design.
Despite these problems, both experimental animals seemed to have learned the task
set before them. for the complex task, the first set of scores (trials 1-10) is significantly
different (pe0.05) from the scores for all other sets of trials, with the exception of trials 11-
30. Based on this, then, the experimental animal presented with the complex learning task
