Visual learning in the common cuttlefish, page 4
Results
During a twelve-hour recording of activity, the position and orientation of the animal
was recorded every five minutes, and neither cuttlefish was found to approach the light in a
manner similar to that during trials. Figure 2 shows the data for Tank One, and Figure
Three shows the data for Tank Two. The scattered points along the perimeter of the tank
were mainly when the animal was swimming near the surface or in mid-water, whereas the
high density areas of points correspond to a position near the bottom of the tank.
Plots were also made of the orientation and position of each cuttlefish at the beginning
of the trials (see Figures 4 and 5), and no preferential orientation is apparent.
One component of a response to the stimulus, the normalized change in distance to
the stimulus from the beginning of the trial to shortly before the presentation of the reward
was calculated (see Figure 8). These results were placed into groups of ten trials each, and
analyzed using one-way ANOVA. Figures 6 and 7 show the change in normalized distance
over the course of the experiment in Tanks One and Two, respectively. For Tank One,
results were significant with p 0.05, but results for Tank Two were not.
A more complete analysis of the trials was also carried out. Three factors were
considered in the score for each trial: the onset of an attention position, the normalized
distance the cuttlefish moved toward the stimulus, and the final angle between the
cuttlefish's body orientation and the stimulus (see Figure 8). Each parameter was given a
score from 0-1, and the total response was a sum of the three parameters. Each trial,
therefore, was assigned a final score from 0-3. The scores were placed into groups of ten
trials, and a one-way ANOVA was performed. Both results, with pe0.01 for Tank One,
and pe0.05 for Tank Two. The results are shown in Figures 9 and 10, respectively.
Discussion
There were several potential problems with each of the experimental designs. First,
the animal could, perhaps, have come to associate a certain location with the food reward.
This was avoided by randomizing the location before each trial. Second, the animal in Tank
One could have heard the live crabs moving around in the tube before the trial, and
therefore known which of the two stimuli would have food below it. The trials run with
shrimp served as a control for this. There was also some concern that the cuttlefish could
be receiving some type of chemical signal from the food in the tube, be is crab or shrimp
However, trials run following the training protocol, but with no food in the tube also
resulted in positive responses as pronounced as those with a food reward present.
