Visual learning in the common cuttlefish, page 2
for some later trials, there was always a food reward to be found below the constant light.
In order to receive the reward, the cuttlefish was required to approach the constant light. At
that point, the food would be exposed to view. In the second experiment, the animal was
presented with only one stimulus- a flashing light- and the reward was given when it had
reacted to that stimulus.
Once the animal in a learning experiment has demonstrated an apparent ability to
master the task, a typical next step is to try what is called a reversal. For the animal in Tank
One, this would entail a change in the stimulus that the cuttlefish needed to approach in
order to receive a reward. Since the initial learning task was approaching the constant light,
a reversal would mean the flashing light would now be the stimulus that had the food
below it. If an animal has truly learned, it should be able to accomplish a reversal in less
time than the original learning.
Materials and Methods
Rearing (Boletzky and Hanlon, 1983) of experimental animals
Cuttlefish were obtained from the National Cephalopod Resource Center in
Galveston, Texas. They were kept in individual circular tanks with a semi-closed
circulation system (half of the seawater was recirculated after passing through a heating
apparatus). Temperature was usually around 17 degrees Celsius. Lighting was artificial
with a 10:14 LD cycle. The animals were approximately 15 cm in mantle length.
Experimental animals were fed a combination of frozen commercial shrimp and live
crabs, primarily Petrolithes cinctipes, collected from the shore around Hopkins Marine
Station. The amount of food each animal received on a given day depended on performance
in experimental trials, but was generally two shrimp, four crabs, or some combination of
the two. An animal that did not perform in the trials for that day was not fed outside of the
trials unless such behavior had gone on for more than one day. In such a situation, a
shrimp was provided to avoid extreme starvation.
Experimental set-up
For a sketch of the experimental set-up, see Figure 1. Each tank was surrounded by a
black curtain to exclude visual stimuli other than that desired for the experiment.
Recordings were made using a Canon A-Digital camcorder on a tripod above the tank, and
a Panasonic AG-6730 TL (time lapse) VHS video cassette recorder.
Visual stimuli were red LEDs (peak emission wavelength of 660 nm) run off of two
AA batteries. The flashing light was created by interrupting the current with a relay switch
run by a function generator set to a square wave with a frequency of 1 Hz. The stimulus
