Figure 1.
Figure 2.
Figure 3.
Figure 4.
Figure 5.
Figure 6.
Figure 7.
Figure 8.
Figure 9.
Figure 10.
Visual learning in the common cuttlefish, page 9
Figure Headings
The experimental set-up.
The activity of the cuttlefish in Tank One over a twelve-hour period. Each »
represents five minutes, and the arrow points in the direction the cuttlefish
was oriented towards.
The activity of the cuttlefish in Tank Two over a twelve-hour period. Each »
represents five minutes, and the arrow points in the direction the cuttlefish
was oriented towards.
The position and orientation of the animal in Tank One at the beginning of
each trial. Each » represents the location at the onset of the stimulus, and
points in the direction of the animal’s orientation.
The position and orientation of the animal in Tank Two at the beginning of
each trial. Each » represents the location at the onset of the stimulus, and
points in the direction of the animal's orientation.
Mean proportional distance moved over the course of the experiment for the
animal presented with the complex (choice) learning task. Numbers were
calculated by subtracting the animal's final distance from the initial distance,
and dividing it by the initial distance.
Mean proportional distance moved over the course of the experiment for the
animal presented with the simple learning task. Numbers were calculated by
subtracting the animal's final distance from the initial distance, and dividing
it by the initial distance.
How a score was assigned to each trial. The final angle was scored as a
fraction of 180 degrees, and the distance factor was scored as the fraction of
the original distance from the stimulus that the animal approached. Each
factor had a range from O to 1 for positive responses. A trial was given a
score of 1 if the animal went into the attention position at the onset of the
stimulus, and a score of O otherwise.
Mean scores over the course of the experiment for the animal presented with
the complex (choice) learning task.
Mean scores over the course of the experiment for the animal presented with
the simple learning task.
