Visual learning in the common cuttlefish, page 3
were located approximately 8 cm off of the bottom of the tank, inside of standard aquarium
air tubing. In the choice (complex) experimental tank (Tank One), food was place in a
white PVC pipe just below the level of the LED. In the simple experimental tank (Tank
Two), the food was dropped into the water through a long black PVC pipe that extended
from just below the surface of the water to outside the curtain.
Trial protocol
Ten to fifteen minutes before a trial in Tank One, the food reward was placed into one
of the two tubes at the base of the stimuli apparatus. Every attempt was made to shield the
food from the animal's field of view. The same actions used to place the food into the tube
were mimicked around the other food tube.
At the time of the trial, the stimuli were turned on for one minute before the food
tubes were raised to expose the food to the cuttlefish in Tank One, or before food was
dropped through the food chute into Tank Two. Both of the food tubes in Tank One were
raised simultaneously. The location of the rewarded stimulus- the constant light for Tank
One, and the flashing light for Tank Two- was randomized by tossing a coin before each
trial. Because only three to five trials were run each day, it was possible that all trials for
that day could be run with the rewarded stimulus in the same location, which could lead to
association of that location with food. To avoid this, if all trials for a given day had been
run with the rewarded stimulus in the same location, an additional trial would be run with
the location changed.
If, after five minutes, the animal had not reacted to the stimulus or consumed the
food, the lights would be turned off, the food tubes lowered in Tank One, and the food
removed from the tank.
Behavioral observation
To get a better idea of the regular pattern of activity for cuttlefish in this environment,
the activity of the experimental animals was recorded over a period of twelve hours using
time lapse video.
Data collection
The video of each trial was analyzed using NIH Image version 1.60 to measure
angles and distances during the trial. These factors were measured before the onset of the
stimuli and before the reward was presented (before the tubes were raised in Tank One, and
before food was dropped into Tank Two).
