Visual learning in the common cuttlefish, page 1
Abstract
Although many learning experiments on cephalopods have been carried out with
octopus, little is known about the learning ability of a close relative, the cuttlefish. The
capability of two common cuttlefish, Sepia officinalis, to associate either a flashing light or
a constant light with a reward of food was explored in this experiment. One animal was
presented with both a flashing and a constant light and had to choose the constant light in
order to receive the reward. In a simpler experiment, the other experimental animal was
presented with a flashing light and simply needed to react to the light to receive the reward.
Over the course of the trials, the animal in both experiments showed significant increases in
responses focused on the light associated with reward (pe0.001 for the choice experiment;
p20.05 for the simple experiment).
The animal trained initially to choose the constant light was then exposed to a
situation in which the flashing light meant a reward. Although a full reversal was not
achieved due to time constraints, the difference between response score before reversal and
response score after reversal was also significant (pe0.05). Similar experiments would
need to be done with a higher number of animals (n»1) to get statistically significant
results.
Introduction
Cuttlefish are visual predators. Therefore, it seems natural to assume that they are
able to pick up on visual clues to aid in the location and capture of prey. Once prey has
been located, the animal goes through a stereotypical, three part response. First, the animal
goes into what is called the attention position- two tentacles held in a vertical V formation
and their color darkened. Once in the attention position, the animal orients itself towards the
prey and approaches it. As soon as the animal has approached to within a certain range, it
shoots out two longer tentacles and grabs the food, pulling it in towards the mouth.
(personal observations)
Previous experiments with cuttlefish have shown that they have the ability to
associate sound with a negative reward (Packard et al., 1990). Two years ago, an
experiment was done by another Hopkins Spring Student that demonstrated the ability of
the cuttlefish to associate sound not only with a positive reward of food, but with the
complex task of moving around a barrier to receive the reward (Rawizza, 1995).
In order to test the ability of the cuttlefish to associate a visual stimulus with a positive
reward of food, two different experiments were set up. In the first (Tank One), the animal
was presented with two stimuli simultaneously, a constant light and a flashing one. Except
