Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 6
J. W. Peabody
posterior segments are initiating it. Finally, some behavioral
phenomena are characteristic of theselate stages. Violent con¬
tractions occur which are localized at the junction of the parent
and offspring. Independent movement increases as the connection
becomes tenuous, evidently facilitating separation.
Stage E. In this stage the bud has two completed thoracic
segments and at least one new abdominal segment has regenerated
in the parent. It is difficult in living animals to determine
exactly how many new abdominal segments are formed on the parent.
or whether a pygidial bud is formed first. The violent contrac-
tions mentioned above make it difficult to observe the connection
from the proper orientation, and the segments at the junction of
bud and parent are deeply recessed. The formation of new abdominal
segments on the parent continues in subsequent stages.
Stages F-H. The actual connection between parent and bud in
stages F-H presents another problem. The connection is no longer
simply through the prostomium but now is located peristomally in
the ventral portion of the collar. At this time it is difficult
to say if the ventral lobe of the collar has formed, though the
fact that it is undivided (unlike the dorsal collar) in the adult,
suggests that it does not develop completely until separation
occurs. The unnatural proximity of the dorsal lobes of the collar
is further support of an incomplete ventral collar,
Branchiae continue to elongate and pinnules begin to form; by
stages G and H, they are clearly visible along the axis of the
growing tentacle (not shown in Fig. 4, G and H). It is not until
separation of bud and parent that the pinnules spread apart.
Another development accompanies the reorganization of abdominal
chaetae during budding; as the tentacles become larger and as new
thoracic segments are externally completed, there is a corresponding
and parallel development of the collar. As it extends posteriorly
it forms the voluminous thoracic mantle. The growing collar is
pushed in abnormally relative to its configuration in an adult,
apparently due to the physical constraints of the junction between
parent and offspring, and it becomes more pronounced in the later
stages (Fig. 4, G and H).
The prostomium and peristomium grow out dorsally as the budding
