Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 5
J. W. Peabody
The actual amount of pigment is highly variable.
Posterior to
the constricted segment, and sometimes anterior to it as well,
there is an opaque region as was found in stage A.
Stage C. There are two hallmarks of stage C: (a) The buds of
the primordial tentacles of the new individual appear dorsally
on both sides of the midline; (b) both capillary chaetae and
uncini are shed from the future prostomium, followed shortly by
their loss from the next posterior segment (the future collar
segment).
Stage D. Collar setae begin to emerge just below the bud-
ding branchiae. As they elongate, their basal expansions become
more pronounced (see Berkeley et al., 1952, Fig. 268), and they
take on the appearance characteristic of mature collar setae.
The abdominal uncini on the first thoracic segment posterior to
the collar begin to disappear; as this occurs, or immediately
thereafter, the new notosetae on this segment appear. Already
evident on them is the bladed edge characteristic of thoracic
capillary setae.
General Aspects of Stages E-H. The conversion of the abdom-
inal chaetae into their thoracic counterparts proceeds in a reg¬
ular manner during the next four stages. The process initiated
in stage D continues until the conversion is complete: (a) the
old abdominal uncini fall off, (b) the new thoracic notosetae
appear, (c) the new uncini appear, and (d) the original capillary
setae are lost. The individual stages are discerned and defined
by the number of externally completed thoracic segments. Two
segments are completed in stage E, four in stage F, six in stage
G, and eight or nine in the final stage, H. The most salient
feature of this regular process is that both the abdominal neuro¬
setae and the thoracic notosetae can be observed at the same time
during reorganization. The new uncini appear slightly translocated
toward the ventral side relative to the position of the original
uncini. Furthermore, the new thoracic setae are added starting
at the ventral and progressing towards the dorsal side. Since
this process occurs on more than one segment at a time, a gradient
can be seen in the length of rows of new thoracic uncini, the ant¬
erior segments nearing completion of the conversion while the
