Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 3
J. W. Peabody
Salmacina tribranchiata (Moore, 1923) is abundant in the
shallow waters of Monterey Bay. Studies of asexual repro¬
duction in this species were conducted at Hopkins Marine
Station of Stanford University in April and May, 1976, with
the purpose of comparing events here with those in S. incrustans
and of clarifying the process by which new thoraxes were formed
in posterior reorganization. Subsidiary observations relating
to systematics and rate of tube growth were also made.
METHODS AND MATERIALS
Clusters of tubes of S. incrustans several inches across
were collected at thirty foot depths in the kelp (Macrocystis)
beds off Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific Grove, California. They
were maintained in good condition in running seawater aquaria
at temperatures of 12-15° C. Individual worms were extracted
from their tubes by leaving portions of a colony overnight in
stagnant seawater at room temperature. Under the mildly hypoxic
conditions generated the worms left their tubes in large numbers.
This method was preferred to anesthetizing the worms in magnesium
chloride, and then removing them, due to a high mortality rate
which resulted from the latter procedure. The extracted worms
were then maintained in finger bowls placed in running seawater.
All observations reported were made on living worms mounted on
slides and observed under a compound microscope.
TAXONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
Hartman (1969) and Blake (1975) in their respective keys to
California polychaetes, identify S. tribranchiata as a non-
operculate serpulid. However, the taxonomic description by
Hartman (1969, p. 771) includes a diagram, by Fauvel (1927), of
a swollen branchial filament tip from S. incrustans, described by
Hartman as an operculum. Though several thousand specimens of
S. tribranchiata were examined in this study, no operculum or
swollen tentacle tip was observed.
Taxonomic descriptions of S. tribranchiata (Figure 1) are
not consistent either: Berkeley et al. (1952) reported five to
eight thoracic segments, while Hartman (1969) states there are
