Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 8
J. W. Peabody
in detail with events in S. incrustans, since details are not
available in Cresp (1964); nevertheless, the overall process
appears to be quite similar.
The replacement of old abdominal chaetae by new thoracic
chaetae follows a slightly different sequence than that reported
by Berrill (1931, p. 499) for Sabella pavonina. He reports,
"The original setae and uncinigerous hooks in each segment drop
out as their bases and muscles atrophy, while at the same time
new setae and uncini appear..." This description appears to
differ from the step by step process observed in S. tribranchiata
In S. incrustans the process of setal replacement happened too
rapidly to be observed, according to Cresp (1964).
While the tabulation of numbers of individuals found at each
budding stage does not give absolute durations of the stages, it
does appear to provide information regarding the relative rates
of each stage. The relatively greater duration of stage B might
indicate that though very little change is observed externally,
internally there may be extensive alterations occurring. This
is supported by the observation that an opaque region develops
in the posterior portion of the parental abdomen just prior to
this stage. The rapidity with which the final stages E-H occur
concurs with the observations of Cresp (1964); he reports that
they happened too fast for him to record.
The possibility that asexual reproduction may show some
periodicity has not been ruled out since colony samples examined
represent a range of only four days. Lunar or seasonal variations
are not excluded.
Although visually the gut appears to be continuous up to
stage H, it is difficult to determine if there are any obstructions
along the internal passage, particularly at the junction of parent
and bud. The fact that material was extruded from the pygidium
by a bud in stage G certainly suggests a continuous gut. An
intact gut would permit the adult to continue feeding with possible
nutritional benefits to both the progenitor and bud, since feeding
could continue throughout the budding process.
