Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 9
J. W. Peabody
TUBE GROWTH RATE
Tube growth rate was measured as a part of the study.
An intact colony which had been maintained in a laboratory
aquarium for two weeks was sprayed with a seawater jet to
remove detritus, and placed in a strong solution of methylene
blue and seawater for 3-4 hours. The water was cooled to
approximately ambient seawater temperature to prevent worms
from evacuating their tubes. Colonies were then returned to
normal seawater. New additions to the tubes (white) were
easily distinguished from older tubes (blue). At irregular
intervals new growth increments were measured with a dissecting
microscope and ocular micrometer. Results are shown in Figure 5
and Table 3.
There was one remarkable finding. If the mean values of tube
growth over the given time intervals are converted to their log,.
values and replotted, a nearly linear set of points emerges
with a correlation coefficient (r*) of 0.994 (Figure 6). A
comparison of the colony before and after staining affords a
possible explanation. After standing in the solution of methylene
blue the worms were kept in normal seawater where there was no
disturbance due to water flow or other animals (previously
removed with the jet of seawater), which live among the calcareous
tube masses. The possible effects of methylene blue on tube
growth represent another consideration. Further studies over
a longer period of time, with the proper controls to test these
factors, might afford some plausible explanation.
SUMMARY
1. The serpulid worm S. tribranchiata lacks an operculum,
and possesses eight to eleven thoracic segments (mode = 9) and
fourteen to thirty-three abdominal segments (mode = 18).
2. Asexual reproduction in S. tribranchiata occurs by
transverse fission and subsequent regeneration in a fashion
analogous to that in the related species S. incrustans.
Regeneration of the posterior bud involves transformation of
former abdominal segments into new thoracic segments.
