Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 1
J. W. Peabody
eight. In contrast to these observations, it was found in this
study that the number of thoracic segments varied between eight and
eleven with a modal value of nine (Table 1). All segments
bearing setae were counted as chaetigers, including the peri¬
stomial segment with its characteristic collar setae. A larger
variance was observed for the number of abdominal segments.
Hartman (1969) reported that the number varied from twenty-four
to twenty-seven, while in this study the number of setigerous
abdominal segments ranged from fourteen to thirty-three with a
modal value of eighteen (Figure 2). Neither the pygidium nor the
unsetigerous region immediately posterior to the thorax, which
is up to twice as long as the first abdominal segments, were
counted as segments.
MORPHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION
S. tribranchiata has been reported to reproduce asexually
in a manner analogous to that of S. incrustans (see Hartman 1969).
In the present study it proved possible to divide the process of
fission and regeneration into a series of stages, each marked by
distinguishing features. The following stages are based on the
microscopic examination of several hundred worms removed from
their tubes.
Stage A. Worms in this stage have no clear indication of
imminent division. Some worms at this stage exhibit an opaque
region in the posterior portion of the abdomen, the region which,
in budding, will become the new worm and sometimes, in the
region anterior to the segment where fission will take place.
Stage B. The first indication of imminent budding consists
of constriction in a single whole segment posterior to the thorax
(Figure 3). The particular segment undergoing constriction varies,
ranging from the sixth abdominal chaetiger to the thirteenth
with a mode at segment seven (Figure 4). The appearance of red
pigment distributed transversely on the constricted setiger is
another characteristic of stage B. Of the individuals sampled
(Figure 4), ninety percent were observed with the red pigment.
