Page 7
Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
J. W. Peabody
worm elongates, as observed by Cresp (1964) in S. incrustans.
Consequently the offspring becomes increasingly separated from
the parent. Finally in stage H, the only connection appears to
be along the intestine. On one occasion material expelled from
the anus of a bud in stage G.
Once parent and bud are separated there is further development:
In the parent the pygidium forms a functional anus, and the former
connection to the bud seals leaving a prominent grey-white scar
just dorsal to the anus. Internally the thorax and abdomen com¬
plete their development in the offspring and as this occurs the
internal opaque tissue mass disappears.
Frequency of Occurrence of Stages A-H in Colonies. It seemed
desirable to time the rate of bud development, but individuals
removed from tubes (by any method) and individually maintained
in seawater containers did not thrive, nor did worms placed in
glass tubes. A more circuitous method was therefore used.
Several samples of colonies were isolated, the worms removed,
and each individual was classified according to the budding stage
to which it corresponded. The results are plotted as percentages
in Table 2. Stage I (following stage H) was added for newly budded
worms. If budding is asynchronous, if it goes on all the time,
and if the time spent in a particular stage is proportional to
the number of worms in that stage at a given moment then it is
possible to gain an idea of the relative duration of the stages.
Three-quarters of the animals examined were not budding at
all. Of the worms which were budding, those at stage B predom¬
inated, while the next two stages showed a marked decrease in
numbers. Relatively few individuals were observed in the final
stages.
To check the assumptions that budding was asynchronous and
aperiodic, samples of colonies were examined on different dates.
As is apparent from Table 2 there was no appreciable difference
between samples.
DISCUSSION
The stages outlined for S. tribranchiata cannot be compared
