Asexual Reproduction in Salmacina
Page 2
J. W. Peabody
INTRODUCTION
Annelids are well known for their capacity to regenerate
missing parts (Berrill, 1951; Abeloos, 1955). Some worms
are not only capable of regenerating new anterior and posterior
ends but they also undergo fission and employ this ability to
multiply asexually. This occurs in the genera Filograna and
Salmacina of the family Serpulidae. These two genera are
closely related; Filograna has an operculum, while an operculum
is lacking in Salmacina. Though Hartman (1969) has treated
Salmacina as a separate genus, numerous other authorities such
as Gee (1963), Day (1967), and Nelson-Smith (1967) treat
jalmacina as a subgenus of Filograna.
Regeneration and asexual reproduction have been studied by
Cresp (1964) in the European species Salmacina incrustans (Clap.).
Cresp has shown that when Salmacina is cut in halves it is
capable of regenerating both anteriorly and posteriorly. In
addition, the worms reproduce by transverse fission in the ab-
dominal region and undergo subsequent regeneration.
Berrill (1931), Berrill and Mees (1936), and others cited in
Berrill and Mees (1936) (Okada (1932), and Gross and Huxley (1935)
had previously shown that in regeneration of sabellids and
serpulids cut in the abdominal region, regeneration by the anter-
ior half is a relatively simple process. It involves formation
of a new pygidial region and later addition of new abdominal
segments in the normal manner. Regeneration by the posterior
half, however, is more complex; this involves the growth of two
or three new anterior segments followed by the reorganization of
a number of existing abdominal segments into thoracic segments.
The process is more one of metamorphosis than of regeneration.
Such a transformation of abdominal into thoracic segments must
occur in asexual reproduction is S. incrustans, but Cresp (1964)
does not include any of the details of abdominal reorganization
and it is not clear just how reconstitution of the new thorax
takes place.
