Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
serve the ultimate sites of these vessels with oxygenated blood, which would be a
constant function of the vessels and thus not a regulatory, efficiency-altering system
with respect to the rete. However, more research would be necessary to come to solid
conclusions as to the effectiveness and exact mechanism of these bypass systems.
The lateral muscle retia in the salmon shark appears to be similar in structure
and size to that of the porbeagle. However, anatomical measurements indicate that
the suprahepatic rete is larger and more defined in L. ditropis than in other
lamnids, and measurements and characterization of the kidney rete are as yet
singular, lacking anything to which to compare it. As anatomical analysis can only
infer the answers to physiological temperature-regulation questions, more data will
need to be collected from live sharks before definite conclusions can be made about
the salmon shark's degree of endothermy, and therefore about regional endothermy's
upper limits in nature. Implications from post-mortem physiology place L. ditropis
in the highest position of endothermy of any shark.
CONCLUSIONS
Lamna ditropis may well have the most well-developed and efficient retial
system in all of the animal kingdom. It can claim the largest rete yet found in
nature, the massive two-lobed suprahepatic rete, which is also structurally distinct.
with minute arterial vessels which branch but then recombine with incredible
consistency. Its lateral muscle retia occupy a similar cross-sectional area within the
muscle, as well as a similar structure of parallel bundles of tubular, longitudinally-
directed vessels, to lateral cutaneous retia described in the porbeagle. And the newly
defined sub-renal rete, rediscovered after 70 years of oversight, appears to be truly
unique, with its lobe and lateral extension down the entire ventral length of the
kidney consisting of a single layer of arterial vessels beneath a protective connective
tissue sheath. The functionally unknown anastomosis and reconvergence of the
