Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
another sinus. Rather than a simple steady bathing of warm blood from a large
open sinus, the sub-renal rete instead receives blood directly from lower lateral
cutaneous veins which enter the posterior lobe of the rete and surround the arterial
vessels. As figure 13 elucidates, the venous blood is not confined by vessels as in
the lateral muscle retia; it also appears that the kidney rete can contain a
significantly smaller volume of venous blood than the spacious sinus of the
suprahepatic rete. However, as only a partial venous injection of one shark was
achieved, more research is needed to fully distinguish the venous character of the
sub-renal retia. As shown in figure 20, the honeycombing vessels of the sub-renal
rete are the largest of any of the retial vessels by a substantial margin, with mean
diameters which are sometimes almost double those of other retia in the same
specimen. Arterial vessel diameters of the sub-renal rete appear to be dependant on
total body mass , but are fairly consistent within each rete (figure 22), with
standard errors of 0.011 and 0.007 mm for LD2 and LD4, respectively
DISCUSSION
Only three salmon sharks have ever been studied alive or freshly caught. In
1983, Smith and Rhodes caught three while hand-trolling for salmon in Alaska.
According to the unspecific “deep body temperature" measurements they acquired,
L. ditropis can attain body temperatures 8 to 11°C above surface water
temperatures. However, none of the three salmon sharks caught was hooked in
surface waters, but instead at depths ranging from 12 to 40 meters, where waters are
even colder. This implies an even greater differential between core body
temperature and even colder water temperatures at depth. Therefore, the salmon
shark must be the most endothermic of the lamnid sharks, followed closely only by
its Atlantic cousin L. nasus. Visceral temperatures, however, have never been
documented for L. ditropis. Nor has descriptive anatomical work produced
12
