Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
documentation to support the suppositions of similarity between counter-current
heat exchange mechanisms in L. ditropis and those of other lamnids. Lack of such
data seems negligent in light of the fact that salmon sharks have been identified as
occupying the coldest of shark habitats, 2° C or colder, and thus probably possess the
most efficient of retial systems in all of nature.
Relative heart size is larger in Lamna species than in other lamnid sharks.
clustering well above heart ratios in I. oxyrinchus (figure 16). Both L. nasus and L.
ditropis possess heart: body ratios of between 0.263% and 0.398% in data collected
by Carey et al., 1985, and reaching a maximum of 0.42% in our data (table 3). If
the assumption that heart size is related to cardiac output, demand for oxygen, and
thus heat production, is made (Carey et al., 1985), then anatomical data supports L.
ditropis' physical physiology being best suited of all lamnids for the highest levels of
endothermy—the highest degree to which the shark may be independent of water
temperature
In 1923, anatomist R. H. Burne published a detailed anatomy paper on L.
nasus, then referred to as L. cornubica. In it, he describes four retia mirabilia
(appearance and location only, no mention of function) that he had identified in
the porbeagle. Salmon sharks possess all four of the retia Burne outlined for their
Atlantic relative. Scientific literature, however, has failed to anatomically
characterize most of these retia, and has completely passed over one of these four
the sub-renal rete of the kidney, whose function is still unknown. Presumably,
however, this rete utilizes the metabolic heat produced in the kidney by the
hydrolysis of ATP in active reabsorption and secretion of ions to warm the
oxygenated arterial blood coming into the lobe of the rete from the lateral cutaneous
arteries. This counter-current exchange could speed the clearing of nitrogenous
wastes, excess ions, and salts via the excretory system to ready this scavenger¬
