Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
FIGURE LEGENDS
Figure 1: Rough locations of the four retia found in Lamna ditropis. Red
represents arterial vasculature.
Figure 2: The origins of the left lateral cutaneous artery, arising from within the
third inner gill arch and following the curve of the fourth outer gill arch before
extending laterally down the length of the fish and giving rise to the lateral muscle
rete. Photo of LD4.
Figure 3: LD4, double-injected with blue venous and red arterial. The upper of the
two vessel systems consists of the lateral cutaneous artery, which can be seen
extending from above the gills, and two lateral cutaneous veins, one above and one
below this artery. The more ventral system consists of two lower lateral cutaneous
arteries and a corresponding vein below each of them. The division of the arteries
into two from a single common vessel can be seen. This anastomosis occurs as the
artery rounds the cartilage of the pectoral girdle (white and shiny in the photo).
Figure 4: The minute, finely-branching extending from the lateral cutaneous
artery and veins of LD4. Rete vessels are at their most compact state, as they are
near the skin and the rete has not begun to widen in cross-sectional area. The
parallel nature of the vessels of this rete. Photo taken with sample submerged in
water, on stereomicroscope under 160 x magnification.
Figure 5: Cross-section of LD4. The venous vessels of both lateral muscle retia are
injected, showing the increase in retial area as in approaches and enters the
internal red muscle.
Figure 6: An up-close of the same rete. The bundled nature of the retial vessels is
evident, with fibers of white muscle between.
Figure 7: A cross-section of the muscle rete of LDI, prepared from a sample
preserved in 10% phosphate-buffered formalin and sectioned in paraffin. The
alternation of retial vessels bundles and white muscle fibers is clear. The pattern of
artery-vein meshing is seen. Arteries are thick-walled and filled with silicon. Veins
are unrinsed and thus show residues of blood.
