Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
TABLES
Table 1: Vessel diameters of all lateral vessels. Measurements given are of internal
vessel diameter unless indicated by (ext) following a measurement, in which case the
measurement taken was and external diameter. Capillaries between refers to tiny
arterioles which connect the lateral cutaneous artery with the upper of the lower
lateral cutaneous arteries— these branches split off the main vessel at approximately
every 5 mm, running down the white muscle just under the skin. These vessels run
in a parallel, diagonal fashion and connect the two lateral vessel systems, indicating
that the two share common blood and/or mixing occurs. Diameters may be biased
by how great the volume of injectant used to fill the vessel (i.e., some vessels more
stretched than others?)
Note that the lateral cutaneous artery tends to be larger in diameter than the either
of the lower lateral cutaneous arteries. Also, lower of the veins surrounding the
lateral cutaneous artery tends to be the larger, whereas vein lying between the two
lower lateral cutaneous arteries was consistently the larger of the lower lateral
cutaneous veins.
Table 2: Mean trapezoidal areas of tubular muscle retia. Note that area of rete is
consistent with increasing total size of the specimen.
Table 3: Viscera masses, followed by relative mass as a percent (visceral mass/total
body mass x 100). Total mass of viscera used to estimate ratio between mass of
suprahepatic rete and the organs it serves.
Ratios will be crude estimates, as retia
were injected with silicon injection compound before being weighed each time. Thus
suprahepatic masses, as well as that of kidneys, will be altered. Note that the
suprahepatic rete of LD4 is an uninjected mass, and thus reflects blood rather than
silicon within the vessels, and may be inconsistently high. Stomach contents were
emptied from LDI before weighing; however, no stomach contents were found in LD2
or LD4. Heart not included in viscera totals. Note that right/left of lobes is from a
dorsal view of the specimen, (i.e., left lobe of liver if looking from dorsal view). Also
note that some loss of oils from liver occurred during dissection, and thus masses of
liver lobes may be inaccurately lower than their true values. Pancreas was never
identified, and thus never weighed, in LDI or LD4, nor was rectal gland in LDI and
