Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
predator for its next meal. Such a hypothesis parallels the reasons given for an
endothermic fish warming its viscera to increase digestive enzyme efficiency and
clear meals from its digestive tract at a rapid rate (Fudge, 1996; Carey, 1981), and
extends such rapid systemic clearing to the excretory as well as the digestive systems
The suprahepatic rete of L. ditropis, conceivably the largest retial tissue in
nature, has never been described. This rete, embodying up to 0.638 % of the shark's
total body mass, nearly doubles comparative percentages of retia of other lamnids
(in others, such as C. carcharias and L. nasus, the suprahepatic rete averages
between 0.20 to 0.30% of total body mass (Carey, 1985)). If assumptions of relative
size of retial tissue can be extended to indicate efficiency levels, L. ditropis should be
physiologically equipped to attain the highest levels of independence from
surrounding water temperatures of any warm shark or fish.
The functional advantage of the arterial "honeycomb" of the suprahepatic
and sub-renal retia is still a mystery. Both honeycomb retia, though, appear to be
immersed in a low-pressure sinus or sinus-like sac of tissue, thus receiving a constant
bathing of cold arterial blood in a warm venous pocket for maximal heat transfer. It
is also unclear from previous lamnid research whether such a honeycomb nature of
retia is a characteristic of the entire family Lamnidae, or if it is species-specific to L.
ditropis.
Carey (1983) mentioned the existence of a venous suprahepatic bypass vessel
in the porbeagle, running beneath the lobes of the rete. The salmon shark also
possesses such a vessel. It is unclear whether this vessel is truly functional, since it
seems unlikely that the diameter of this venous bypass could withstand the volume
of blood which the rete continually encounters. The arterial vessels he suggests as
hypothetical bypasses are even more unlikely because of their small diameters— too
little blood could circumvent the rete for the vessels to be considered a bypass
system. The amount of blood re-routed is probably no more than is necessary to
﻿14
