Condie: Retia in L. ditropis
Figure 8: Both lobes of the suprahepatic rete of LD2, excised from the viscera and
esophagus. The enlarged pericardial arteries which feed the arterial portion of this
rete are evident in the anterior portion of the photo.
Figure 9: The suprahepatic rete of LD2 under 140 x magnification. Note the
honeycomb pattern of the arteries.
Figure 10: Convergence of the lower lateral cutaneous arteries into one cloacal
artery, which feeds the posterior lobe of the sub-renal rete. Once converged, the
cloacal artery turns toward the ventral midline of the shark, away from the lateral
course the lower lateral cutaneous arteries.
Figure 11: The posterior lobe of the sub-renal rete of LD2. The cloacal arteries,
seen extending from the rete on the right side of the photo, feed the tiny arteries of
this rete. The meshwork of minute vessels in this compact lobe are evident.
Figure 12: The entire kidney of LD2, from a ventral view. The cloacal arteries feed
the conical posterior lobe of the rete, with vessels from this lobe extending down the
length of the kidney (exposed from under the cylindrical bands of connective tissue
lining the ventral side of the kidney which normally protect these retial vessels).
Figure 13: Cross-section of the double-injected sub-renal rete of LD4 under 180 x
magnification. Bubble are an artifact of the water in which the rete was submerged
for photos. Note the honeycomb pattern of orange arterial vasculature and the
sinusoidal blue "fill" representing venous blood, unconfined by venous vessels.
Figure 14: Mean arterial vessel diameters of muscle retia, as calculated via optical
micrometry, with error bars representing standard error. Trend of vessel diameter
increase is consistent with increases in the total mass of the specimen. N values
indicate sample size of vessels measured. Exact values as follows: 0.1105 + 0.0055
(LD1), 0.1218 + 0.0072 (LD2), 0.1018 + 0.0064 (LD4).
Figure 15: Demonstrates the approximate (r2-0.954) linear relationship between
the mass of the suprahepatic rete and the mass of the viscera (liver and digestive
organs), both in kilograms.
