The inducible isoform of hsp70 exists side-by-side in the cell with the constitutively
expressed heat shock cognate protein 70 (hsc70). Like hsp70, hsc70 is a molecular chaperone
protein (Dworniczak and Mirault, 1987). It also plays a role in the trafficking of proteins within
the cell by working with auxilin to remove clathrin from coated vesicles (Ungewickell et al.,
1995). Because it is expressed constitutively, cellular concentrations of hsc70 would not be
expected to increase with heat shock. This has been confirmed by Clark and Menoret (2001). In
animal A, we observed an approximately 6-fold induction at 33° C at two spots on the array
corresponding to hsc70 (the gene is represented twice on the array)(fig. 3). This probably
represents improper binding of hsp70 cDNA to the hsc70 probe. The failure of the array to
discriminate between hsp70 and hsc70 in this case may be related to the extreme abundance of
hsp70 mRNA. In animal A at 33° C, hsp70 mRNA levels were 100-fold greater than at the
controls. Apparent Hsc70 induction was not observed in animals B and C.
Some denatured proteins cannot be refolded even with the help of molecular chaperones
like the hsp's. Sequestosome 1 is a ubiquitin-binding protein that helps to aggregate irreversibly
denatured proteins within the cell that have been tagged for degradation (Thompson et al., 2003).
As seen in figure 4, this gene also showed a trend towards induction at higher temperatures in the
three animals. This is an intriguing result that deserves further investigation given the known
function of this gene. Induction of sequestosome 1 may signal a cellular response to increasing
levels of denatured proteins as temperature increases.
In addition to these changes in hsp’s and peptide degradation proteins, we also found
possible evidence of programmed cell death in response to temperature damage. Fos-related
antigen 2 (FÖSL2) codes for a nuclear protein that dimerizes with proteins of the jun family to
form the transcription factor AP-1. This complex, and especially the similar gene c-Fos, has
10
