genetic databases. Further characterization of the Mytilus genome will advance understanding of
the heat stress response by elucidating the function of currently unidentified genes.
Environmental temperatures may exceed the maximum induction temperature
Many genes, including hsp70 and hsp20, showed reduced induction at 36.2° C in all 3
animals (figs 1, 2; table 1). This is suggestive either of a deleterious effect of heat on
transcription or of elevated degradation of mRNA at this temperature. This may represent a
threshold above which the cellular machinery involved in mRNA induction cannot function.
The temperature data in figure 5 show that simulated body temperatures exceeded 37° C
for over 120 minutes on several days in March. While these data are not representative of typical
habitat temperatures (they are from an unusually warm episode), they indicate that the peak body
temperatures of mussels may occasionally exceed the animal’s ability to mount a stress response.
If there is a maximum induction threshold at 36° C, the mussels would have been unable to
transcribe genes for heat shock and other proteins for about 90 minutes on the hottest days. This
type of extreme temperature exposure would be expected to cause severe damage to the
organism. While no large-scale mussel death was noted in the mussel population at Hopkins
Marine Station during this hot event, anecdotal reports indicate a notable mussel die-off at
Bodega Bay, further north of Monterey. In addition, even if the acute heating were a sublethal
stress, it could still have significant cost-of-living effects on the organism that could be
deleterious over longer time scales (Somero, 2002).
Simulated body temperatures were found to track environmental temperatures closely.
Figure 6 shows the environmental temperatures recorded by an exposed iButton attached to the
rock next to the mussel bed where the simulated body temperatures were recorded. Figure 7
shows the close relationship between habitat temperature and body temperature for a single day
12
