of the data were of low quality. Problems during the array production process resulted in slide-
by-slide variation in the degree of hybridization success. Many slides showed significant
background fluorescence. In general, the slides for Animal A showed less background
fluorescence and higher spot intensities than those from Animals B and C.
Differential Gene Expression
Hsp70 and hsp20 were strongly induced with temperature in all three animals (figs. 1 and
2). The expression profiles of these genes fit a priori expectations given their molecular
chaperone function. This result increases our confidence in the validity of our technique. The
strongest induction of these genes was seen at 33.0° C in two animals and at 28.9° C in the third
Hsp70 was more highly induced at all temperatures than hsp20. Hsp70 mRNA induction in the
treatment samples at 33° C was 60 - 110 times greater than in the control samples. This very
strong induction of molecular chaperone mRNA suggests that they are a central part of the
organism’s response to high temperatures.
Consistent inter-individual variation in induction of hsp70 and hsp20 was apparent.
Animals A and B showed similar induction at most temperatures for both genes, while the
mRNA levels in animal C were lower than in the other animals at all temperatures for both
genes. The observed induction peak for animal C came at a lower temperature than for A and B
in both genes. These consistent patterns suggest that there may be some difference in the gene
regulatory strategies of these particular animals in response to heat. Variation of this type could
be caused by prior acclimatization (although all 3 mussels were acclimated at 14° C for two
weeks prior to the experiment), genetic differences between individuals, or some other unknown
source.
2 This is with the exception of the frozen 14e control, 20.19, and 28. 90 C, where the Cy-S dye failed to couple to the
treatment samples from Animal A, resulting in missing data at these temperature points for this individual,
