INTRODUCTION
Temperature strongly impacts many important physiological processes. Extreme
temperatures can have negative effects on protein stability, protein synthesis, heart function.
action potential generation, mitochondrial respiration, and membrane static order (Somero.
2002). Given the impacts of thermal stress, organisms that are subject to widely varying body
temperatures must have adaptations to safeguard biological function over the range of
temperatures to which they are exposed. This paper focuses on the exploitation of phenotypic
plasticity through changes in gene expression as a strategy for dealing with elevated temperature
in the mussel Mytilus californianus.
M. californianus is a fitting experimental organism for studying temperature adaptation.
This species occurs in the mid-intertidal zone of wave-swept rocky shores along the west coast
of North America from Alaska to Baja California (Seed and Suchanek, 1992; Roberts et al.,
1997). Due to the effects of tidal immersion and emersion, as well as daily weather patterns,
temperatures in this habitat zone can vary as much as 18° C in a single day (Helmuth and
Hofmann, 2001). Because mussels are sessile ectotherms with limited potential for behavioral
thermal regulation, their body temperatures fluctuate on the same scale.' While the lower
vertical limit of M. californianus is generally determined by interactions with other species
(Paine, 1966; Paine, 1974), the species’ upper limit is primarily governed by abiotic factors
(Seed and Suchanek, 1992). Temperature is likely to be of primary importance among these
factors, which also include desiccation stress and hypoxia. Coping with these environmental
stresses may carry a significant energetic cost, as individuals from sites higher in the intertidal
It is possible that mussels may be able to cool themselves slightly at high temperatures by gaping (opening the
shell slightly) to allow for evaporative cooling. However, Helmuth and Hofmann (2001) argue that this is unlikely
due to the accompanying risk of desiccation.
