Discussion and Conclusions:
There were many holes in the methods of data collection in this experiment and in
the data itself which prevented it from being strong and conclusive evidence, but a few
trends were able to be positively identified which can serve as the basis for stronger
hypotheses and lead to future experimentation. To begin, the one part of this experiment
that strong conclusions can be made about is based on the information gathered
concerning the effects of the mucus, and it is not even clear that this would ever exist in a
normal spawning situation. It clearly accompanied the eggs during the seratonin injections
and dissections. It therefore may be the product of unnatural situations only and never
occur in normal conditions. When the mucus is present, however, it is increasing both the
percentage of buoyant eggs and the rates of ascension. In the presence of the cloudy
mucus, close to 100% of the eggs were at least initially positively buoyant as shown in
both Fig. 4 and Table 2. When this material was not present, only approximately 75% of
that batch of eggs was ever positively buoyant. Figure 4 shows that the mucus
consistently began to sink and coagulate by eight hours, which increased the percentage of
eggs that ended up on or near the bottom of the experimental vials. The mucus also had
an obvious affect on the movement of the eggs. This is depicted in the graph in Figure 5.
which displays a trend indicating strongly that the demographics of eggs released by the
clams are significantly different as a result of the presence of the mucus.
If it does turn out that the mucus material is normally present, then based on the
observed effects its presence has, a few speculations can be made. The change in
buoyancy could be due to the gradual loss of some positively buoyant chemical into the
external seawater environment over time, such as ammonia. The presence of the mucus
could be serving one of two possible purposes. Either it is providing a means for
developing embryos to return to the benthic environment and is therefore an aid to
development, or it is just by chance dragging some of the developing eggs back down to
the bottom greatly before their time and is hence a hindrance to their chances of survival
If the developing embryos do indeed require a different environment for development, as
has been hypothesized by many different researchers (Young, 1993), then this cloudy
material could either help, in the case of the increased ascension rates, or hinder, as in the
case of drawing trapped eggs back down to the bottom before they had fully utilized other
required conditions. Based on the average ascension rates (Table 2), it was estimated that
eggs floating within the accompanying mucus would take a mean of 2.5 days to reach the
surface, while eggs floating freely could at best climb about 50 meters in two days (though
the range of distribution is greater, including some eggs that wouldn’t rise at all in the
absence of the mucus)
So far, developmental experimentation at the Monterey Bay Aquarium and by
MBARI researchers on these cold seep bivalves has shown that it takes about 6-7 days to
get close to the larval stage (+ 64 cells) under stable 6° C conditions in the lab. While
increases in temperature that accompany ascension seem to speed up this process (Young,
1993), it is not known how fast. However, this change could be required if the larvae turn
out to be lecithotrophic and have a limited internal energy supply, as many researchers
suggest (Gage and Tyler, 1991). In six days the average free eggs would have climbed
over 150 meters, taking them to slightly warmer waters (+ 6° C, as opposed to the 5° C
native to the clams) with a slightly lower salinity (approx. 34.2 ppt). These conditions are
