Once the parameters had all been determined, the next step was to simulate them.
The egg buoyancy chamber was designed to meet the needs of manipulable temperature
and salinity and yet providing a stable, current-free environment into which individual eggs
could be injected and observed for their reactions to the basic elements of different deep-
sea environments. The model used for this experiment was a prototype and underwent
later design changes. Rates of motion were measured against a vertically implanted ruler
using a stopwatch. Temperature was controlled by a recirculating cold bath. Salinity of
the internal chamber was increased to the required level of 34.28 ppt using a combination
of microfiltering ambient seawater (0.2 micron filter cartridge), salinometer measurements,
and the gradual addition of Instant Ocean synthetic sea salts to raise the salinity to the
correct level. Figure 3 provides a diagram of the egg buoyancy design and further
explanation of the temperature, salinity, and flow controls implemented in the design.
Continuous temperature control problems with the prototype required finishing the
observations in a cold room to ensure accurate maintenance of the low 5.2° C
temperature.
Eggs used in the experiment were acquired from the bivalves in a variety of ways
depending on the condition of the clams. One method was the seratonin injection method
recommended by Strathmann (1987). In the cases where clams did not respond positively
to the injections and spawning did not take place, the gonad was then removed by
dissection, the outer membrane teased away, and eggs either gently washed out (they
often were easily removed) or obtained by maceration through a 225 micron filter screen.
The eggs were stored in scintillation vials filled with the artificial deep-sea water in a 5° (
cold water bath until they could be used in flotation trials. The clams were also kept
constantly in these conditions, in individual beakers in the cold bath.
Six scintillation vials were sealed with eggs in them and observed over time in the
cold bath, to look for positional changes among eggs over time. This was done for both
Sharpbutt and C. pacifica. Data was lumped into sums for each species to avoid biases
due to individual clams and to determine the dynamics of the eggs when released in
groups. Observations were made after four hours, eight hours, and twenty-four hours.
Egg counts were translated into percentages and an average of the overall observation was
taken.
For the egg buoyancy tests, eggs were observed individually. Eighty-eight of over
150 trials were useable as data. Twenty-seven tests were of eggs with the cloudy mucus
still present., the rest were stripped by constant washing with the artificial deep-sea water
The holding vial was swirled before acquiring eggs in the syringe to evenly distribute the
eggs of various densities and get a random sampling. Each single egg was injected slowly
so that it entered the center of the chamber column neutrally and then ascended or
descended of its own accord and not due to the influence of a fast injection stream. The
egg was then timed as it proceeded to sink or rise, its time recorded every time it
progressed three centimeters. For all eggs, a general time limit of around 3 minutes was
given. If, after three minutes, the rate seemed to be constant but the egg had not yet
traveled the full distance of the ruler, recording was ceased for that test. However, if the
rate seemed to be still changing, testing was continued until either the egg reached either
end of the chamber or a constant rate was eventually reached. Rates were deemed
constant if they were the same for two consecutive measurement points.
