overcome to become buoyant anyway. The key focus therefore, was the differences in
densities between the eggs and the surrounding seawater. Water density is easily
manipulated, being dependent solely on the water's salinity, temperature, and to a lesser
extent, pressure (Neumann and Pierson, Jr., 1966). For the purposes of this experiment,
the minute effects of pressure differences on density change were deemed negligible since
water is only slightly compressible, so only temperature and salinity were used to calculate
densities approximating those found in the environments from which the clams were
removed. While the resultant buoyancy rates would not be exactly equal to those at the
635m sites, they were deemed to be close enough to be indicative of what was happening
to the eggs in their natural environment. A device was subsequently constructed to meet
these needs precisely. The egg buoyancy chamber created and used in this experiment
allowed individual eggs to be observed under precisely simulated conditions of
temperature and salinity so that it could be determined if eggs predominantly floated or
sank upon release. Positive buoyancy was suspected, which would indicate travel to
another type of environment during the following embryonic and larval stages of
development before finally becoming a clam and settling back in a cold seep region. This
would also suggest the need for different environmental conditions and nutrients in order
for subsequent stages of development to proceed successfully.
Though tests were run using all three species of cold seep clams currently found in
the Monterey Bay, the only species for which complete data was available at the end of
the experiment was Calyptogena pacifica. Therefore, though some information was
retained concerning the "Sharpbutt" species, only the results of egg buoyancy studies on
C. Pacifica were discussed at length.
Rates of ascension or descension of oocytes were measured with the intent of
serving both as a preliminary indication of the extent of density differences between the
eggs and surrounding sea water and as a method to measure any differences or regularities
between individual eggs. Such rates have also been hypothesized to give an indication of
where the gametes go for future development (Young, 1987). Furthermore, they can
allow for a calculated estimate of how long it would theoretically take the traveling eggs
to reach different vertical environments in the ocean.
Materials and Methods:
The cold seeps in the Monterey Bay Canyon from which the clams were collected
were located by video camera navigation of the ROV, Ventana, from the Point Lobos
(Figure 1). All of the clams providing eggs used in the results of this experiment came
from the 635m site marked in Fig. 1. The ROV also collected and recorded data
concerning depth, pressure, salinity, and temperature changes during its dives (Figure 2)
The temperature and salinity values were extrapolated from the computer-recorded graph
in Figure 2 so they could be simulated in the experimental chamber. Temperature was
approximated to be 5.2° - 5.3° C. Salinity was estimated to be 34.28 parts per thousand
(ppt). The formula used to calculate the density at atmospheric pressure was taken from
the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office's Handbook of Oceanographic Tables (1966, Table
1). The resultant density used to approximate that found at the 635m sites had a specific
gravity value of 27.11 (see Table 1 for explanation).
