not much different from the initial conditions in which the eggs are released, but food
conditions, currents, turbulence and radiation exposure conditions can be. Therefore, the
presence of the mucus would have greater significance since transportation in its presence
would be much more speedy
The buoyancy tests only produced enough data to indicate a few trends, but
nothing can be concluded. Tests performed with clean eggs indicate a broad range of
densities among the eggs, between being more dense than the sea water to being less
dense. Neutral eggs suggest a condition of homeostasis (see Table 2). The risers
themselves covered a wide range of velocities, so densities evidently vary greatly and do
not seem to favor a norm. The fact that the standards of deviation for both average
buoyancy rates are very large indicates that the means do not give any strong indication of
normalcy in either experimental group. If the two tables in Table 2 are compared, it can
be seen that this is less so for the mucus group, especially since all the eggs in this group
floated. While much could be speculated about the implications of this information,
nothing can be concluded due to the scarcity of data available. More work needs to be
performed for conclusions and further speculation to be made.
Aside from the curious presence of the mucus, a few other factors exist which
might have skewed data and therefore added to the possibility of there being misleading
trends. First of all, the clams that were used in this experiment had been in captivity for
anywhere between two weeks to six weeks. Capture methods had not been perfected
during the time of this experiment, and clams often suffered from deteriorating health and
would eventually die after having been in captivity for a few months. The different
conditions under which they were maintained could have affected the physiology of the
clams and the physical makeup of materials produced by the animals, such as the eggs in
the females. The extent of any possible osmotic changes that may have occurred inside
the clams is not known, but this possibility exists
Second, the egg buoyancy chamber used for the experiment was a prototype which
had not been perfected, so many problems had to be dealt with during the course of the
experiment, such as moving the system to a cold room when it became evident that the
prototype was not adequately maintaining uniform cold temperature when at room
temperature. This weakens the scientific accuracy of the project. A new design has since
negated this problem.
For the future, problems with sickly clams, a faulty egg buoyancy chamber, and the
late discovery of the elusive mucus will not exist. This should allow for uninhibited data
collection to accurately determine predominant trends for the eggs of all three of the cold
seep species of the Monterey Bay and elsewhere. Besides determining buoyancy trends.
rates, and ultimately egg densities, future experiments can test for rate differences with
increasing temperatures to determine if there is a range of sea water densities at which
eggs become neutrally buoyant or stop ascending. It should also be determined whether
different stages of development cause changes in buoyancy rates or densities. Then
perhaps indications will be given of where the eggs belong in the vast oceans, and the
mystery of development of these bivalves can be further unraveled. For now, it seems
indicated by the trends that the developing embryos are bound for a pelagic development
rather than a benthic one. More work is definitely needed. The key to understanding the
development of such mysterious deep sea organisms appears to lie in first understanding
