Results:
The results obtained from the twenty-four hour observations of the eggs stored in
scintillation vials were put into bar graph form for easy interpretation in Figure 4. After
four hours, well over 90% of the eggs from C. pacifica were floating. Close to half of
these eggs in every vial were contained in the translucent mucus that accompanied the
eggs during spawning, which floated in a single sticky mass in every case. Only an
average of 4% of eggs had sunk at this time, and no mucus accompanied these. After
eight hours, the percentage of eggs floating freely had risen to over 60% from the 48%
observed at four hours. In all vials, the mucus had become cloudy and coagulated, and it
had either sunk completely to the bottom or was hovering just over the bottom. The
percentage of eggs contained in the mucus had dropped from close to 50% observed at
the four hour mark to about 30% at the eight hour mark. These eggs, trapped in the
sticky mucus, were now recorded as sunken rather than buoyant. At the twenty-four hour
mark, these effects remained and merely became slightly more pronounced; the mucus
material in every vial remained on the bottom and appeared to be shriveled and much
smaller in size, a greater percentage of eggs floated near the surface of the vials, free of
mucus, and the percentage of sunken eggs that were free of the mucus had decreased
Finally, in four of the six vials the shriveled cloudy mucus mass was now beginning to
break apart and dissolve.
The results of egg buoyancy tests were summarized as two separate tables in
Table 2, one for eggs in the presence of the mucus material, one for eggs that had been
filtered and cleaned free of mucus. For eggs tested in the presence of the mucus, 100%
were positively buoyant under the simulated cold seep conditions. 75.41% of the eggs
that had been freed of mucus were positively buoyant (46 of 61), while 3.28% of them
sank and 21.31% were neutrally buoyant (Table 2)
Average rates also differed between the two groups. Table 2 shows that eggs in
the presence of mucus had an average rate of 0.273 cm/sec (SD 0.1997 cm/sec) while
filtered, mucus-free eggs traveled at an average 0.03324 cm/sec. (SD 0.03116 cm/sec)
Note that while all of the eggs in the presence of mucus were positively buoyant, some of
the cleaned eggs were neutral and even negatively buoyant, serving to lower the average
rate somewhat. A comparison of the ranges of buoyancy rates between the two groups
shows also that the eggs in the presence of mucus, which were all positively buoyant, also
covered a much greater distribution of rates, 0.69, than eggs that had been filtered and
isolated, whose range of rates was 0.1566.
To illuminate the trends in rates of eggs in both conditions, Figure 5 shows in
graph form how average buoyancy rates of both groups of eggs varied with respect to
increasing height of the buoyancy chamber. The average rate at each height for eggs with
the cloudy discharge steadily decreases from over 1 cm/sec at the 3cm. mark to around
0.3 cm/sec by the 15 cm. mark, while the average rate of the filter-cleaned eggs appears to
remain fairly constant at less than 0.1 cm/sec along the entire distance of the tube. Not
enough data was collected to gauge the average rate for this group beyond the 12 cm.
mark. Only positively buoyant egg data was compared in this graph to give an accurate
comparison of differences caused by the presence and absence of the mucus discharge
