the path of travel followed by the developing gametes, indicated by density differences and
flotation rates. From there, regions where further development occurs may be pinpointed
and later stages of development identified, allowing progress to continue in the study of
the development of cold seep bivalves.
Acknowledgments
The three men without whom I would never have developed such a project are
Chuck Baxter, Jim Barry, and Chris Harrold. They were the key idea men in this project
Towe all three a great deal in giving me developmental direction and inspiration, both with
this project and in learning about the process of research in general. To John Lee, thanks
for helping me break ground with development of the prototype of the egg buoyancy
chamber, which I finally worked all the bugs out of during the following summer. Of all
the people from my spring class, I probably owe the MOST thanks to the following
people, on whom I exacted the greatest toll when I thought I’d “lose it" near the end: to
the TA, Molly C., who kept me from snapping before my presentation after I spent the last
11 days and 10 nights constantly awake and frantically trying to acquire and interpret
fresh, unbiased data; to the library folks, Alan and Susan, for their patience with my mess
in the library when my project "crashed" right at the end of the quarter; and, most of all, to
Chuck Baxter who was and continues to be my inspiration. He convinced me of the
promise of this project, so well in fact that I stuck myself with it through the following
summer at the Monterey Bay Aquarium until at last I had to tear myself away and go back
to school; he effortlessly put me back on track when I was lost, so wise is he, he reminded
me that beer CAN calm you down when you need to relax; and, he waited patiently to be
truly retired from responsibilities to Stanford for once and for all while I spent the next
year over-committed to academics and the rest of the world and attempted to get out of
Stanford myself. Like many countless others before me but none officially after me,
Chuck gave me inspiration and direction as a professor in marine biology in and outside of
some awesome classes. He will never cease to inspire those he interacts with. Good luck
to you in your new endeavors, Chuck! And thanks to all.
