Bio 175H Research Project
Chuck Baxter, Advisor
H.M.S. Spring Qtr, 1993
A study of the vesicomyid clams in the Monterey Bay Canyon:
time-lapse video analysis of adult reactions to varying sulfide
levels, and examination of egg buoyancies and flotation rates
by Ben J. Meyer
Abstract:
This experiment was designed to study different aspects of development and
behavior of the vesicomyid clams in the cold seeps of the Monterey Canyon. It consisted
of two parts, a behavioral study done using time-lapse video and a study of the effects
simulated cold seep conditions had on the gametes of the clams. The first portion of the
project, the behavioral study, only allowed for developmental progress and gave
inconclusive results, so it was not discussed in this paper beyond pertinent information in
the introduction. The second portion of the project and the focus of this paper consisted
of testing the egg buoyancy of the eggs of different species. The majority of conclusive
data comes from C. pacifica, although some conclusions were available from the
vesicomyid species known as “Sharpbutt" also. A significant discovery in regards to the
condition of the eggs was that a mucus cloud released with the eggs during experimental
spawning and dissecting procedures greatly changed results when compared to those of
clean, free eggs. The difference in average rates was such that eggs in the presence of the
mucus were estimated to be able to climb 635m to the surface in approximately 2.5 days
while in 2.5 days many free-floating, clean eggs would have only climbed 5Om, with some
free eggs not ascending at all and some even sinking, a phenomenon never observed in the
presence of the translucent mucus. The implications this information holds for egg
survivorship and a specific environment of embryonic and larval development remains
speculative. This project solved many problems, exposed many new questions, provided
ground-breaking development (such as the creation of the first known egg buoyancy
chamber) and paved the way for further future experimentation in this field.
Introduction:
Little is currently known about the biology of vesicomyid bivalves occupying cold
seep communities in the deep ocean. The recent discovery of such communities in the
Monterey Bay Canyon and Fan Valley during ALVIN dives (Embley, et al., 1990) has led
to on-going research by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute and the Monterey
Bay Aquarium. Three species of vesicomyid clams are currently collected by the
remotely-operated vehicle (ROV) Ventana of the Point Lobos research vessel. These are
Calyptogena pacifica, Vesicomya gigas, and an as of yet unknown vesicomyid species
currently nicknamed "Sharpbutt," due to its sharply angled posterior end. All species are
known to carry endosymbiotic bacteria which utilize the hydrogen sulfide released at such
sites as a primary energy source in chemosynthesis (Childress et al., 1991). The ability to
routinely collect and maintain these clams in chilled sea water aquaria has permitted a
variety of studies.
