Legend for Figures and Tables
Figure 1: Map of where cold seep clams were found in the Monterey Bay
Canyon. Collection sites are indicated by an
Figure 2: Dive data from the ROV, Ventana, aboard the Point Lobos (MBARI
research vessel). Recorded during March 19, 1993 collection of C. pacifica in the Monterey Bay
Canyon. Salinity, oxygen, depth (directly related to pressure) and temperature were all recorded.
Table 1: Density tables from the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office's Handbook of
Oceanographic Tables, 1966, along with an explanation of calculations and units.
Figure 3: Diagram of egg buoyancy chamber prototype. The outer chamber and
inner chamber are isolated from each other. The outer chamber circulates water from the cold-
water bath recirculator, controlling the temperature of the inner chamber. The inner chamber is
accessible from the outside, allowing manipulation of the salt content and water density, and
allowing the water to be cleaned from time to time, when too many eggs were inside. The syringe
port is the site of egg insertion.
Table 2: Table of data for egg buoyancy tests, in two parts. The first box contains
data for eggs tested in the presence of the cloudy mucus material that accompanied them during
spawning. The second box contains data for eggs that were filter-cleaned and tested clean
Figure 4: Bar graph depicting ratios of eggs in different states as observed in
scintillation vial experiment. Floating eggs are the bottom two groups at 4 hrs. and the bottom
group at 8 and 24 hrs., eggs that sank are the top group at 4 hrs. and the top two groups at 8 and
24 hrs. Error bars give an indication of relevancy of changes between times.
Figure 5: Comparison of average rates vs. heights between filtered and non-
filtered eggs of C. pacifica. While a difference in trends exists, note that these averages are
misleading, since both groups had such a large variation of rates. The filter-cleaned eggs moved
too slowly for enough data to be collected for a relevant point at 15 cm. Only the heights appear
on the graph which allow a direct comparison to be made.
