In this project, two experiments were carried out in an effort to illuminate differing
aspects of the lives of these bivalves. Developmental work with time-lapse video was
carried out to create a system that would test for behavioral responses in the clams to
varying levels of hydrogen sulfide. Inconclusive results at the conclusion of the quarter
prevent the work from being discussed any further in this paper, but the background is still
of some foundational importance for the second experiment, so that information is still
mentioned here.
Observations around cold seep sites in the deep ocean have consistently revealed
burrow tracks surrounding and leading to the seeps, where scores of the vesicomyid clams
may be found (MBARI video footage record, 1993; Chuck Baxter, personal
communication; and Rosman et al., 1987). The clams leave the troughs behind as they
plow through the sediment to and around these sites which are rich in nutrients they
require for survival (Rosman). Rosman indicates that occurrences of vesicomyid clams in
varying densities are associated with varying gradients in pore-water chemistry and that
the movements of the clams suggests a dispersed nutrient source which requires
occasional active searching. While the trails observed come from various directions, the
clams are always found together in clusters, leading Rosman to deduce that the nutrient
source is confined to the areas of congregation and discontinuous in the surrounding areas
(Rosman, 1987; MBARI video footage, 1993). The film project was designed to test for a
specific relationship between the positional orientation chosen by cold seep clams and
varying levels of hydrogen sulfide being emitted from beneath the soil into the benthic
environment.
As the cold seeps these clams occupy are finite and small, the question arises of
how their developmental process enables newly developed clams to successfully find these
environments which are essential to their existence and yet seem scarcely larger than
specks in the vast expanses of the open ocean, assuming they ever leave them at all. The
egg buoyancy study was intended to shed some light on this aspect of deep-sea bivalve
development by focusing on the events taking place immediately upon the releasing of the
gametes. Research has shown that many factors, including advection, convection, and
other currents, tides, surf, density of biomass relative to the water, environmental
temperature and pressure, and predation, affect developmental success as well as where,
when, and how fast development occurs in the ocean (Woodin, 1991; Young, 1987; and
Mark Denny, personal communication). In the case of deep sea organisms such as the
cold seep bivalves, knowledge of these interactions immediately following the release of
the gametes can give crucial insights to what environmental conditions the fertilized
embryos go to and will later require for successful, complete development to occur. This
experiment examined the buoyancy of mature oocytes in an effort to determine if the eggs
of different species were consistently positively or negatively buoyant when initially
released into the cold seep environment. The whole process of either floating or sinking
upon release into a water environment for small objects relies both upon the frictional
resistance and the relative densities of the object and the seawater (Gross, 1987). Since
frictional resistance in an aquatic system is a product of the seawater’s viscosity and
therefore of the temperature, and since the temperature was controlled to remain constant.
it was expected that the frictional resistance would also remain constant. Therefore, like
gravity, it was disregarded as one of the natural elements an object would have to
