N. ostrina-like sequence, in which case there would still only be one species present at Hopkins
Marine Station. Or, if this individual is an N. ostrina, there could be a small population of N.
ostrina at Hopkins Marine Station, with more individuals not being found due to the relatively
small sample size (34 individuals). If this is the case, it would oppose the trend seen both in this
study and by Marko (1998, pers. comm.) for only one species to be present per site. Another
possibility is that a single N. ostrina made it to Hopkins Marine Station, possibly stuck to the
side of a kayak, or brought accidentally by a researcher. Without other members of its species
present, this snail will most likely die without reproducing, thus having no effect on the genetic
structure of the Hopkins Marine Station population. The other possible exception involves San
Luis Obispo. This study found only N. ostrina at San Luis Obispo; however, Marko (1998)
found only N. emarginata there. Most likely, these two sample populations were collected from
different areas, with each area having its own distinct population. If this is the case, the change
in genetic structure occurs over a very short distance. However, the location at which Marko
collected his snails is unavailable at this time, so it remains unknown as to whether these two
species inhabit the same rocky headland. Overall, the trend seems to be that only one species is
present per geographic location. Why would this be the case? One hypothesis is that this
phenomenon is due basically to chance. Whichever species happens to colonize a location first
(having gotten there by migration, or on floating debris or a boat, etc.) is able to dominate in
resource use and prevent members of the other species from establishing a population. Such a
founder event could also lead to a rapid shift in the genetic structure of a population, as it adapts
to a new environment (Palumbi 1994). If this founder effect occurred, it would further help to
explain the genetic distinctness observed at each geographic location. Another possibility is that
selection might be acting on these two species. Previous work has shown that clines in physical
-11-
