Fig. 1. Varying shell morphology in A) N. emarginata and B) N. ostrina. C) Rounded
"shoulder" morphotype. D) Angular "shoulder" morphotype. E) Adapical tooth. The tooth is
the small bump visible on the apical end of the columella.
Fig. 2. Unsuccessful PCR reaction with the primers 1490 and 2198. Lane 1 is a 1-kb ladder,
lanes 2-1 8 are individual snails and lanes 19 and 20 are the positive and negative controls,
respectively. Note only faint primer dimers are present.
Fig. 3. Unsuccessful PCR reaction with the primers COla and COIf. Lane 1 is a 1-kb ladder,
lanes 2-16 are individual snails, and lanes 17 and 18 are the positive and negative controls,
respectively. DNA templates either did not amplify (lanes 1, 2, and 6) or produced several bands
(lanes 3-5 and 7-16). Some product is also visible in the negative control, indicating this reaction
was contaminated.
Fig. 4. PCR reaction with the primers COIM-H and COIM-L. Lane 1 is a 1-kb ladder and lanes
2-20 are individual snails. Lanes marked with dots represent amplifications good enough for
sequencing.
Fig. 5. A) PCR reaction with the primers Nucella COIf and Nucella COIr. Lane 1 is a 1-kb
ladder, lanes 2-7 are individual snails, and lanes 8 and 9 are the positive and negative controls,
respectively. Lanes marked with dots represent amplifications good enough for sequencing.
B) Corresponding chromatogram. Note the peaks are all clearly defined and fairly uniform in
height.
Fig. 6. Haplotypes found at each location.
Fig. 7. Location of collection sites and the species found at each location.
Fig. 8. A parsimonious phylogenetic tree created from COI sequences. The numbers on the
right of the branches correspond to haplotype numbers.
Fig. 9. A phylogenetic tree showing branching that occurred in at least 50% of 100 parsimony
trees. Numbers indicate the percentage of trees displaying each branching pattern.
Fig. 10. Differences in COI haplotype frequencies between wave exposed and wave protected
areas at Hopkins Marine Station.
