nucleotide sites. PCR with the new primers Nucella COIf and Nucella COIr yielded both clean
amplifications and clean sequences (Fig. 5).
Analysis of sequences. The 463 bp COI fragments from all four geographic locations
had 12 variable sites, which resulted in 10 unique haplotypes (Table 1, Fig. 6). Comparisons of
these haplotypes to published sequences for N. emarginata and N. ostrina show that the
populations at Hopkins Marine Station and Point Joe are N. emarginata and the populations at
Soberanes Point and San Luis Obispo are N. ostrina (Fig. 7). Four nucleotide base sites were
used to make the determination between species. At each of these sites, all of the N. ostrina
individuals had one base, while a majority of the N. emarginata individuals showed another
base. All of the individuals in this study were polymorphic at these sites, however, a few of the
previously published N. emarginata sequences (Marko 1998) did not share these polymorphisms
(see appendix). The presence of a certain nucleotide base at each of these four nucleotide sites
allowed for the positive identification of N. emarginata individuals, since these four bases are
only observed in N. emarginata. The presence of the alternate base implies that the individual is
an N. ostrina, however this assumption could possibly have led to misidentified individuals. To
help identify individuals with a greater level of certainty, unmarked shells from Point Joe and
San Luis Obispo were additionally sent to an expert for identification (Marko, pers. comm.). His
species designations agreed with the species designations made based on sequences. This
patchwork distribution of species is somewhat unexpected, since species often have continuous
ranges.
Not only is there variation between species, but variation within a population also exists.
Intrapopulation variation ranged from 0.056 - 0.194%, while variation between populations of
each species ranged from 0.218- 0.546%. These values give Fsr ratios between 0.303 and 0.852
