INTRODUCTION
Isolation between species leads to speciation. This isolation can be the result of
geographic barriers, as is the case with allopatric speciation. However, speciation can also occur
in the absence of obvious physical barriers, especially in the marine environment (Palumbi
1992). Here, isolation is the result of genetic differentiation, which in turn leads to reproductive
isolation. When species have large ranges, but low dispersing larvae, genetic differentiation
should be seen between distant populations since gene flow between them will be small. This
process is known as “isolation by distance“ and is generally intended to apply to continuously
distributed populations (Wright 1943). In a similar model, the "stepping stone" model (Kimura
and Weiss 1964), gene flow occurs between adjacent populations, but not between more distant
ones. Both of these models predict a decrease in genetic correlation over long distances.
Genetic differentiation over geographic distance has been observed along the Pacific coast of
North America in several species, including copepods (Burton et al. 1979, Burton and Feldman
1981) and corals (Hellberg 1994, Hellberg 1995). In the case of corals, Hellberg (1995) has
shown that the coral Balanophyllia elegans follows the stepping stone model over smaller
spacial scales, but not at the rangewide level. Both of these models would lead to parapatric
speciation, speciation in which some gene flow occurs (reviewed in Gavrilets et al. 2000). Taxa
with low larval dispersal make good systems for studying patterns of speciation because they
have higher rates of both speciation and extinction (Hellberg 1994). This study focuses on two
sister species from the gastropod genus Nucella, the dog-whelks, as another model system for
studying genetic differentiation over small geographic ranges. This system, however, is unique
because two closely related, and recently diverged, species can be studied simultaneously in a
range where their distributions overlap.
