Members of Nucella are found along the eastern Pacific coast from Alaska to Baja,
California (Palmer et al. 1990, Marko 1998). Due to extreme morphological similarities between
these species, they have had a confused taxonomic history. Most recently, Palmer et al. (1990)
showed that the "species" N. emarginata was in fact two cryptic species. The southern
populations retained the name N. emarginata and the northern populations became N. ostrina.
Since then, considerable effort has been spent trying to describe reproductive, morphological and
genetic differences between these two species (Palmer et al. 1990, Marko 1998, Marko et al.
2003). N. emarginata and N. ostrina are fairly easy to distinguish by the shape of their egg
cases, with N. emarginata eggs being shorter and fatter than those of N. ostrina (Palmer et al.
1990). In contrast, using shell morphology to distinguish between species tends to be quite
difficult since several morphs exist within both species (Marko et al. 2003, Crothers 1984,
personal observation). Palmer et al. (1990) and Marko et al. (2003) suggest that N. emarginata
and N. ostrina can be differentiated by the number of body whorls, whether the spiral cords are
knobby or continuous, the size of the aperture, and the presence of an adapical tooth on the
columella. However, these traits are not always well defined and do not provide a reliable
method for identifying the species. Genetic methods are also available to distinguish between N.
emarginata and N. ostrina. Marko (1998) used both nuclear (allozyme) and mitochondrial DNA
to identify Nucella species along the northeastern Pacific coast. His analysis showed that N.
emarginata and N. ostrina are genetically distinct at nine allozyme loci. He additionally found
twenty-five distinct mitochondrial DNA haplotypes. Using these molecular techniques, Marko
found that N. ostrina is present from Alaska to central California, while N. emarginata is found
from central California to Baja, California. There is a zone of overlap between the two species
in central California. Marko further suggests that these two species diverged as the result of
