(Table 2). Using these Fsr ratios to perform bootstrap analyses shows that all four geographic
locations have genetically distinct populations (P + 0.0001 in all cases). Although significant,
this variation is very small, with haplotypes of a species varying by no more than three
nucleotide bases. The significance arises because these haplotypes are very local, with only one
haplotype being observed in more than one geographic location (Table 1). Figures 8 and 9 show
two parsimony trees generated by doing a heuristic search with branch-swapping and random
stepwise addition. Figure 8 shows one of the one hundred trees generated. Figure 9 is the
majority rules consensus tree for these same one hundred trees, i.e. this tree shows only
branching that occurred in at least 50% of all trees.
Since Hopkins Marine Station had the largest sample size, its population structure was
examined more carefully. Three unique haplotypes are present at Hopkins Marine Station (Table
1). One haplotype clusters with N. ostrina on a phylogenetic tree, and differs from the other two
haplotypes by at least seven nucleotide bases. The other haplotypes cluster with N. emarginata
on a phylogenetic tree (Fig. 8) and differ from each other by only one nucleotide base. The
observed polymorphism is a cytosine to guanine transversion, which is somewhat uncommon. It
is possible that this transversion is due to sequencing error. However, the sequences showing the
transversion were sequenced on different days and with different sets of primers, so the
probability of this result being sequencing error is small. Looking only at the N. emarginata
sequences at Hopkins Marine Station, differences in population structure are apparent between
wave exposed and wave protected areas. The shift in haplotype frequencies between protected
and exposed sites is significantly different (Fsr = 0.089, P = 0.03. See Fig. 10). These two sites
are separated by approximately 100 m, including an approximately 10 m stretch of sand, which
could have prevented members of these populations from reaching each other to reproduce.
