Page 25
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
A New Pigment from Tegula funebralis
(Mollusca: Gastropoda)
PATRICIA MCGEE
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(1 Text figure; 3 Tables)
change. Prolonged heating at 100° C resulted in a brown
IN THE TROCHACEAN SPECIES Tegula funebralis (A.
discoloration, and is assumed to be due to decomposition.
ADAMS, 1854) and T. brunnea (PHILIPPI, 1848) which
It is photosensitive, and becomes yellow with prolonged
are abundant in the intertidal zone of the Pacific coast,
exposure to light. When reduced with hydrosulfite, a yel-
the female gonad is bright green. In both species, the
low color appears, but reoxidation to green can be achieved
pigment is found in droplets evenly dispersed throughout
by autoxidation or treatment with H.O2. In methanol,
the volk. An extraction of the pigment in T. funebralis
a green fluorescence was observed in the oxidized form.
was made. The crude green pigment was partitioned into
The large molecular size suggested a protein complex.
a group of yellow carotenoids and an unknown green
The unknown was, therefore, placed in aqueous solution
pigment. This is a study of these colored materials.
and an equal amount of CHCIs with .1 volume amylal¬
PREPARATION
cohol added. This was vigorously shaken and centrifuged
for 10 minutes. A blue protein appeared between the
The pigment was initially extracted from eggs carefully
phases of green aqueous solution and colorless CHCIa.
stripped from 200 gonads. The eggs were blended in a
The aqueous phase was re-treated until the blue zone no
Waring blender with absolute methanol for five minutes.
longer appeared. The solubilities and spectrum of the un-
The methanol was changed, and extraction was repeated
until the suspension was white. The crude green pigment
was then dried and redissolved in methanol. This re¬
RELATIVE ABSORPTION
extraction was repeated three times. Ether and water
partition of the pigment separated the material into a
vellow epiphase and a green hypophase. Repeated parti-
07
tioning was used to purify the materials.
RESULTS
The yellow material, dried and dissolved in petroleum
ether (Bp. 40° 60° C) was placed on an Al-Oa column.
The column was developed with a gradient of acetone in
petroleum ether. The four bands observed were collected,

and a tentative identification of zeaxanthin, lutein and
alpha carotene was made from the data in Table I (P.

KARRER & E. JUCKER, 1950).
The green pigment could not be identified. Some of its
250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700
properties are briefly stated in Table II. In addition, in
aqueous solution it freely passed through sephadex G-75
which indicates a molecular size larger than that cor-
Figure 1: The absorption maxima of the unknown green
responding to a molecular weight of 40,000. In aqueous
pigment in H.O. The oxidized state peaks at 640 and 273,
solution, it may be warmed to 100° C without obvious
while the reduced state peaks at 273 u.
