Eprtonrum toxin p.
Sigrid Salo
contract in response to electrical stimulus; the responses noted in the exper¬
iment are the effect of Epitonium toxin on the spontaneous rhythm of the tentacle
and on the contraction due to physical and chemical effects of injections and
to touching. Whole Epitonium crushed in sea water waere used.
RESULTS
Feeding Behavior
Epitonium tinctum and Epitonium indianorum selectively feed on the tentacles
and sometimes the verrucae of specific anemone species; E. tinctum mainly on Antho¬
pleura elegantissima and somewhat less on A. xanthogrammica; E. indianorum almost
exclusively attacking Tealia lofotensis and T. c
rassicornis. Neither Epitonium is
a permanently attached parasite on an anemone; I have found large E. indianorum in
cracks a foot away from an anemone in the field, and both species often crawled
around in the tank.
When feeding, Epitonium tinctum may position itself on the column, on shell
fragments or pebbles on the column of an anemone, or by the base of a small anemone.
Quite often, Epitonium crawling on the column of an anemone may have the foot stained
by the purple dye they produce. The Epitonium everts and extends up its long pro¬
boscis, which it brandishes about until it encounters the tip of a tentacle; if it
touches another part of the anemone, such as the column or even the midsection
of the tentacle, the proboscis is quickly lifted and continues to explore. When
the tip of a tentacle is contacted, theEpitonium slides its proboscis over it and
appears to saw it off with its radula. The anemone remains open until just before
the proboscis, with the bitten-off tentacle visible within, is retracted, when
it may partially close,
Tealia species don't cover themselves with shell fragments; perhaps for this
reason, Epitonium indianorum is not often found far above the base of Tealia's
column. Otherwise, E. indianorum feeds on Tealia lofotensis in basically the same

manner as E. tinctum on Anthopleura. Tealia crassicornis is a large anemone
