Epitonium toxin p
Sigrid Salo
E. indianorum usually attacks the verrucae from a spot on the base of the column.
I have not found an Epitonium on Metridium senile, nor did the Epitonium
crawl on the Metridium in the tank. Rarely, however, one would attack the tentacles
of a small Metridium from a position near the base of the anemone; this is not
possible with a larger Metridium.
Chemosensory Experiment

If an Epitonium in a Y tube - exposed from one branch of the tube to water
from a tank containing an anemone, the prevalent direction of motion of the Epitonium
Das
is changed from the direction when there was no anemone present. Thus, there must
be a water soluble substance released by anemones which Epitonium can sense and
use to indicate anemone presence.
Epitonium may respond in two ways to the presence of anemone; they may exhibit
affinity for the anemone by moving toward it, or they may avoid the anemone either
by moving away from the source of the odor by moving down the Y with the current.
or by moving away from the odor of aneomne by moving to the side, against the current
up the other fork of the Y.
From 10% to 40% of the Epitonium moved less than .5 cm in any direction, and
were assingned a movement of O for the experiment. The percentage of Epitoniun
„da lack a r
not moving was decreased in the presence of an anemone, but as  could be due
to not sensing the anemone, or to being in a favored concentration of odor where
they were, or perhaps other factors; I am unsure of how to evaluate the numbers,
Oap
Os would be expected, Epitonium showed affinity toward those anemones with
which they are usually associated. E. tinctum has a wider distribution than E.
indianorum, and this is manifested in the fact that it shows a more general affinity
toward anemones. Neither Epitonium is found on or exhibits affinity for Metridium
senile.
Geapk 2
Epitonium indianorum showa greater avoidance of anemones, and wil usedeither
method of avoidance; moving away from the presence of all three anemones with
which it is not normally found, and moving away from the odor of Anthopleura xar
