Epitonium toxin p. 2
thirty to eighty feet deep off Mussel Point and at the Pinnacles, near Pescadero
Point, Monterey County, California, on and near the anemones Tealia lofotensis
(Gosse, 1858) and Tealia crassicornis (Gosse, 1858). E. tinctum were sometimes
found on shallower Tealia, and E. indianorum were found only rarely on Anthopleura.
All collections were made in May, 1975.
For experiments on chemosensory perception, two approximately seven liter
tanks were set up, one containing an anemone and one without. The tanks were con¬
nected by rubber tubing to a glass Y tube so that one branch of the Y received water
from the anemone's tank and the other received water from the control. Sea water
constantly flowed through the system; flow rate of the water entering each branch
of the Y tube was approximately five ml. per minute,
Epitonium were placed in the function of the branches of the Y tube; their
position was then recorded after fifteen minutes. Five sets of experiments were
run, in which the motion of Epitonium tinctum and E, indianorum were compared for
Anthopleura elegantissima, Anthopleura xanthogrammica, Metridium senile (Verrill, 1865)
ealia lofotensis, and Tealia crassicornis. In each case but T, crassicornis,
anemones with a wet weight of about thirty grams were used; the smallest T. crassi¬
cornis I had weighed about sixty grams. Five E. tinctum and five E, indianorum
were used in each set of experiments; each was given two runs, for a total of ten
readings for each species. In a control, they were tested when neither tank con¬
tained an anemone.
To test for a possible toxin or anesthetic, two sets of experiments were
carried out. First, Epitonium were crushed in frog Ringers solution and the
effect of this tested on the compound action potential of the sciatic nerve of the
leopard frog, Rana pipiens; since this nerve's properties are well understood. The
nerve was placed over a set of silver stimulating electrodes, and two sets of
recording electrodes, one on either side of a plastic well which contained the
