Epitonium toxin, p. 3
Sigrid Salo
suspected toxin. Supra-maximal stimuli were delivered by a Grass SD-5 stimu¬
lator; the resulting compound action potential was amplified by a Grass P-8 pre¬
amplifier and displayed of a Tektronix 502-A Dual Beam Oscilloscope. (Kao and Fuhr-
man, 1967, p. 27). The ratio between the peaks from the two sets of electrodes
was recorded before and at intervals after the toxin was added, and the oscillo¬
scope image was photographed before and after the toxin had taken effect. This
method makes it possible to compare the action potential of a nerve which has been
treated with toxin to the potential of the untreated portion of the same nerve at
the same time. The effect of crushed whole Epitonium, of the crushed pallial area
of Epitonium, and of Epitonium crushed and then dialysed from twelve to twenty four
hours in Spectrapor dialysis tubing with a pore size cut off of approximately 3500.
in a total of 2000 ml. of ringers solution. Both E. tinctum and E. indianorum were
used.
To test the effect of Epitonium extract on an anemone tentacle, a Tealia crassi¬
cornis tentacle was severed, and the tip attached to a Grass FT:03 force transducer,
The signal from the transducer was amplified by a Grass 5P1C pre-amplifier and re¬
corded on a Grass S2-925-T oscillograph with a Grass polygraph DC amplifier, model
5B. The base of the tentacle was attached to a small piece of capillary tubing
which had been widened at the distal end; the other end of the tube was slid over
the tip of a syringe needle. The needle was affixed to a glass rod and connected
to a 1.0 ml. syringe by a 6 cm. piece of 1/8 in. rubber tubing. The attached syringe
was used to withdraw water from the tubing; injections of Epitonium toxin, tryp-
tamine hydrochloride, or water were made with other syringes into the extreme top
of the rubber tubing. It was found in a subjective test that little dilution of a
dye occurred when it was forced through the system in this method,
Tryptamine, in .05 ml. doses at a concentration of 10" was used to enhance
the quick response of the tentacle to stimulés. Ross,(19, p. ) showed that tryp¬
tamine enhanced the quick response of column and sphincter muscles; it appears to
do so for tentacles also. I was unable to consistently get the tentacle to
