Nava 2
Introduction
Coastal ecosystems bear the brunt of anthropogenic pollution as various chemicals that
are utilized on land meander their way into the marine environment from diverse sources.
Everyday activities such as laundry and sewage produce large amounts of chemical runoff, but
typically in a more diffuse manner; of more significance is the runoff produced by agricultural
operations. Large amounts of pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers wash off crops and into the
waterways leading to the ocean, undoubtedly, having some impact on marine habitats. Runoff
from agriculture has already been found to produce eutrophication in coastal waters, as the
nitrates and phosphates from fertilizers fuel large-scale algal blooms. However, the effect of
chemical pesticides and herbicides in the marine realm has only recently come to light.
Atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethytlamino-6-isopropylamine-1,3,5-triazine) is the most commonly
used herbicide in the United States (30,000 tons annually), and is currently used in at least 80
other countries around the globe (U.S. Dept. Agriculture 1994; Hayes et al. 2002). Within the
state of California, atrazine use is relatively small, with approximately 24.1 tons of atrazine
applied in 2002 (Orme and Kegley 2004). Atrazine was assumed to have low environmental
impacts, but recently Hayes et al. (2002) reported that atrazine induced hermaphroditism in frogs
at concentrations as low as 0.1 ppb, and at higher concentrations, the larynges demasculinized
and testosterone levels dropped.
Scyphozoans are typically considered resilient to poor ocean conditions, thus they may
serve as indicators of poor environmental conditions (especially degraded ecosystems) (Mills
2001; Arai 2001) and may prove suitable for studies of pollutant effects on development. Recent
research suggests that adult scyphozoans may be affected by pollution. Trace metals (arsenic,
cadmium, lead, and mercury) have been found accumulating in tentacles of the scyphozoan
Pelagia noctiluca (Cimino et al. 1983). Researchers examining populations of medusae in the
