Nava 8
had the longest duration of larvae in the planula stage (fig. 4). Planulae comprised a large (».50)
percentage of the experimental population for nearly 6 days (T5o-5.83). Again, there was no clear
pattern in peaks of life stages with time, with similar abundances of all life history stages.
Comparison of Ts times with a single-factor analysis of variance found a significant treatment
effect of atrazine (P=0.0192).
Analysis of Turnover Time
The plots of planulae and polyp life history stages for each treatment were summed to
reflect solely free-swimming planula larvae and all polyp stages grouped into one category; these
were re-plotted to identify the turnover point, when population dominance shifted from planula
to polyp. Calculation of the linear trendline determined the rate of planula disappearance (as
percent per day) and appearance of settled polyps. For the control treatment, planula
disappearance and polyp appearance was found to be .0582 percent per day (fig. 5); the 1 ppb, 10
ppb, and 30 ppb atrazine treatments were calculated at .0726, .0784, and .0865 percent per day
respectively (fig. 6, 7, 8). The intersection point of the trendlines provided an estimate for the
turnover time. The turnover time was longest in the highest atrazine dilution, at 6.27 days, and
lowest in the control treatment (1.96 days) (table II). Analysis with a single-factor ANOVA,
revealed a statistically significant effect of atrazine on turnover time (P-0.0015). Plotting all
treatments for the entire 14-day time series, there was a visibly obvious shift in the turnover
point (when planula and polyp plots intersected) with atrazine treatments (fig. 9).
Further examination of the rates of planula disappearance and polyp appearance also
demonstrated a significant treatment effect of atrazine. Comparing the rates of planula
disappearance and polyp formation (via trendline extrapolation from plotted time series) among
replicates across treatments with an ANÖVA, atrazine appeared to have a significant effect
