Nava 13
conditions (Condon et al. 2001). However, it is clear that scyphozoans may not be adapted to the
chemical alterations in water chemistry associated with chemical pollutants.
Given the widespread use of atrazine, there are undoubtedly large amounts of the
chemical in runoff from land (especially in areas with developed agriculture industries). With
such large quantities of atrazine potentially entering the ocean, there is cause for concern as
scyphozoan development is susceptible to atrazine, since this implies the chemical may likely be
affecting less resilient species as well. Further study is clearly needed as to the effects of atrazine
in development in other marine organisms. Planula settlement in other scyphozoans and indeed
other cnidarians would be of key interest. Öther scyphozoan species (such as Aurelia aurita and
Chrysaora quinquecirrha) may be more resilient than the Aurelia labiata species used in this
study. Both A. aurita and C. quinquecirrha are found in the eutrophic "dead" waters of the Gulf
of Mexico; A. aurita is also an invasive species that has established itself quite successfully in
various habitats, and thus may be more tolerant of stressors (like chemicals).
Conversely, some rhizostome species (Cassiopeia sp. and Mastigias sp.) may be more
sensitive, given their natural habitat of pristine mangroves and tropical lagoons, respectively.
Studies on hydrozoan medusae would be invaluable, given that the current decrease in
hydromedusae populations in the Adriatic Sea and elsewhere (Benovic et al. 1987, Benovic and
Lucic 1996). These decreases may be due to pollution and eutrophication (Benovic et al. 2000);
examination of the effect of atrazine and other chemical pollutants on hydromedusa development
would support or refute this hypothesis. On a large scale, coral reefs are critical ecological and
economic resources in many areas of the south Pacific Ocean. The Great Barrier Reef is a major
source of income for Australia through ecotourism, fishing, etc., but is located directly offshore
from major agriculture operations in northern Queensland. Undoubtedly agricultural runoff is
