Nava 7
turnover points, rate of planula disappearance/polyp appearance, and cumulative mortality from
each replicate across the 4 treatments were each compared with a single-factor analysis of
variance (ANÖVA) (Underwood 1997).
Results
Planula Settlement
Observations of larval population in glass dishes over the 14-day time series were
converted to percentages for each life stage daily. When plotted, the data indicated a decrease in
the percentage of the population in the swimming planula stage and an increase in the percentage
of settled individuals (polyps). In controls with no atrazine, exemplified the clear shift in
population dominance from free-swimming planula larvae to settled polyps, with clear peaks of
consecutive life stages (fig. 1). At 2.83 days, the population of planulae in the sample was equal
to the population of settled polyps (T5o) (table 1).
In the 1 ppb atrazine treatment, there was also a clear shift in the population from
planulae to sessile polyps, however, there was no obvious trend in peaks of life stages over time
(fig. 2). Additionally, the amount of time that planulae dominated the population was longer in
the 1 ppb atrazine treatment than the control treatment (Tsy was 4 days for the 1 ppb atrazine
treatment versus 23 days in the control sample). Furthermore, the percentages of the various
polyp life stages were lower than those in control populations. There was no clear pattern in life
history stages, unlike the consecutive peaking life stages observed in the control. The 10 ppb
atrazine treatment remained in the planula stage for longer than the control and 1 ppb atrazine
treatments (fig. 3). This was evidenced by the Tso, which was higher in the 10 ppb atrazine
treatment (5.17 days, table 1). Unlike the control treatment dishes, there were no clear peaks in
consecutive life stages over time. Interestingly, some individuals reached latter life stages (e.g.
16 tentacle buds), more so than in the control sample. The highest atrazine treatment (30 ppb)
