Nava 4
of Aurelia aurita planula was estimated around 7 days (Schneider and Weisse 1985). Obviously.
not all planulae will settle, given that scyphozoans are r-strategists that rely on quantity of larvae
rather than quality to produce the next generation. The ciliated planula attaches to a substrate
under very specific, but diverse, cues. Work by Brewer (1976a, 1976b, 1984) with the
scyphozoan Cyanea capillata suggests that qualities of the substrate may be critical in
determining settlement, given that C. capillata settles preferentially on rough substrates. The
orientation of the substrate also seems to be key, with planulae preferring to settle with the oral
end oriented downwards, a feature that also seems to be true for Aurelia aurita (Brewer 1978).
Observations of Aurelia labiata polyps in the field and laboratory culture support the notion that
this genus prefers to settle with the oral surface oriented downward, indeed some cultured polyps
often settling on water surface tension (F. Sommer, pers. comm.).
Unlike natural inducers of settlement and metamorphosis, some factors may delay or
prevent development. Goh (1991) found nickel significantly lowered settlement rates, but more
importantly induced higher levels of larval mortality in planulae of the coral Pocillopora
damicornis. With regard to crude oil pollution, coral planulae are similarly intolerant (Kushmaro
et al. 1997; Rinkevich and Loya 1977; Rinkevich and Loya 1979). Among the scyphozoans.
Spangenberg (1984a) found significant impacts of petroleum oil on established polyps of Aurelia
aurita, and suggested that A. aurita polyps may serve as an indicator for detecting subtle effects
of various chemical pollutants. Such effects were also noted in later stages of development (i.e.
ephyrae and juvenile medusae), due to abnormal strobilation in the presence of chemical
pollutants (Spangenberg 1980).
Atrazine was expected to have negative effects on scyphozoan development, delaying or
inhibiting settlement of planula in the Pacific scyphozoan Aurelia labiata. When observed over a
