Nava 6
Approximately 50 planula larvae were pipetted into each dish. The dishes were placed in a
cooling water bath with continuous flow. For each treatment level (i.e. control, 1 ppb, 10 ppb.
and 30 ppb atrazine), there were 3 replicate dishes. Extraneous variation in dish conditions could
have confounded the study’s results. As such, light levels and water temperature were controlled
via dish covering and continuous water bath, respectively.
Each dish was observed under a dissecting scope daily to monitor planula metamorphosis
for comparison among treatments for any effect of atrazine concentration. Following
metamorphosis, the polyp exhibits clear morphological changes over time. The incipient polyp is
often globular in appearance, soon budding 4, then 8 tentacles buds. These buds continue to
elongate into feeding tentacles and the mouth develops. The polyp then produces another set of
feeding tentacles as it matures (a total of 16 tentacles). Numbers of planulae and life history
stages of developing polyps (i.e. new settlers, 4 rudimentary tentacles buds, 8 rudimentary
tentacle buds, 8 incomplete tentacles [tentacle length less than central widthl, 8 complete
tentacles [tentacle length equal to central 1-2x central width], 8 elongate tentacles I [tentacle
length »3x central width), 8 elongate tentacles II [tentacle length »4x central width), 16 tentacle
buds forming lelongating tentacles + new buds»8), and 16 fully formed tentacles) were counted
daily for a 14-day time series.
Data and Statistical Analysis
Plots of planula settlement were prepared over the full time series from raw counts. The
time at which the populations of planula and polyps were equal (each at 50%, Tso) was recorded
for each replicate across treatments. Trendlines (extrapolated via regression analysis) for rates of
planula disappearance and settled polyp appearance were used to determine the turnover point,
the time when the population dominance shifted from planulae to sessile polyps. Tso points,
