Nava 3
western Pacific Ocean found intriguing morphological variants in heavily polluted areas, where
the hydromedusae Gonionemus vertens and the scyphozoan Aurelia aurita exhibited abnormal
numbers of radial canals and gonads, respectively (Pogodin et al. 1997). To the contrary,
Gershwin (1999) suggests that variation in gonad number in Aurelia aurita (specifically the
occurrence of nontetramerous individuals with less or more than 4 gonad pouches) may be due to
natural genetic variation, with little influence by environmental factors.
Scyphozoans utilize both sexual and asexual reproductive strategies during their life
cycle. In Aurelia labiata studied in the present experiment, male medusae release strands of
sperm, which are taken up by the female medusae; the female broods developing embryos within
her bell, until the embryos become competent ciliated planula larvae and are released. The
negatively buoyant larvae sink until they come in contact with a desirable substrate, typically one
covered with organic/bacterial biofilms (F. Sommer, pers. comm.). Upon contact with a
substrate, the planula metamorphoses into a polyp (such settlement typically occurs within 3 to 4
days at 13 °C (C. Widmer, pers. comm.)). Unknown environmental factors trigger strobilation,
by which the polyp divides along its length into a set of identical clones (ephyrae), which bud off
of the polyp once fully developed and then mature into the adult medusa, completing the life
cycle.
Perhaps the most important transformation in the life cycle of a scyphozoan is the
settlement and metamorphosis of the planula larva into a polyp, a process known from most
scyphozoan species (with the exception of Pelagia noctiluca, which undergoes direct
development of the pelagic medusa from the swimming planula stage). Planula larvae are
lecithotrophic, with their own internal energy reserves that suffice until the planula settles and is
able to feed. Using calculations of respiration and waste production, the maximal survival time
