11
Some of the plankton group data, shown in models 9 and 10, explain
significant amounts of the variance. As with delta temperature, the plankton data
reduces the data set available for analysis. Despite this considerable reduction in
sample size, models 9 and 10 are still significant at the 5% level. In both models,
pennate diatoms are included as significant variables. Nanoplankton are only
included in model 10. The inclusion of pennate diatoms in this model is not
supported by the correlation matrices. While the correlation coefficient between
primary production and pennate diatoms is not even significant, the coefficient
between primary production and centric diatoms is r= 0.80, p—0.0001.
Nanoplankton, which also correlates well with primary productivity, has a high
correlation with centric diatoms and shows no significant correlation with the
pennate diatoms.
Considering these overlapping correlations, the unanticipated inclusion of
pennate over centric diatoms can be explained. The nanoplankton-explained
variance is similar to the variance explained by the centric diatoms that centrics
become insignificant in a model which already includes nanoplankton. Without
doubt, the amount of phytoplankton present in an area will directly affect the
primary production of that area. Because the raw population data on each group is
run through an algorithm that converts these organisms to ugCsliter/group, this data
shows how many of each group were present at the site of the productivity
measurements. Variation, if any, in how much production each phytoplankton
group is capable of generating is not provided from this data unless primary
production is correlated directly to the amount of carbon in phytoplankton. More
physiological information is necessary to analyze these results accurately.
When examining graphs of individual correlations between primary
productivity and specific variables, several points show a marked overestimation of
primary production. Figure 5, plotting primary production and PAR" integrated
