for the entire euphotic zone, not just the surface, it is expected that integrated
measurements would have a higher correlation with primary productivity than
surface values. Model 4 also suggests that surface phaeopigments are a significant
variable in explaining an additional fraction of the variance. Table 1 shows a
correlation coefficient between surface phaeopigments and primary productivity of
r=.528, almost as high as the surface chlorophyll correlation. It is unclear, from a
biological standpoint, why surface phaeopigments would correlate so well with
primary productivity. A possible explanation for the appearance of phaeopigments
in this model might be simply because phaeopigments are consistently present in
much smaller concentrations, and therefore their measurements are more sensitive
to fluctuations. Because satellites cannot measure phaeopigments or integrated
chlorophyll directly, this model’s precision, when applied to satellite data, may be
less than model 2. Knowing the precise surface chlorophyll values, however, one
can estimate the integrated chlorophyll value to within 10% accuracy. Satellites
cannot, unfortunately measure surface chlorophyll accurately; their precision level
is approximately 35%. (Platt et al., 1988)
Models 5 and 6 introduces four new variables, all of which represent
important biological information that can affect primary production. The results,
however, show that surface salinity, temperature, nitrate, and silicate explain
insignificant amounts of the variance in this system. Although salinity does not
appear as a significant variable within these regression models, it does correlate
well with primary production(r= 0.56). In addition, salinity correlates well with
PAR, with an r= 0.61. PAR is, among this array of variables, the best seasonal
marker; a correlation with salinity then could indicate that water mass movement in
Monterey Bay is seasonal.
Surface temperature, while presented as a significant variable in other
models (Balch et al., 1989) does not explain a significant amount of the variance in
