12
chlorophyll, shows several points far off the regression line. The composite
variable, PAR'integrated chlorophyll, is used because it reflects more biological
information than either individual variable and shows these outliers most clearly.
Other studies (Platt et al., 1988) have used similar composite variables. The points
specified on figure 5 are summer cruise data points from stations CI and HI, most
showing overestimated productivity. A possible explanation for the overestimation
of primary production at these stations is that both Cl and HI are offshore stations.
while the other two stations used by MBARI are oceanic (see figure 1). The
turbulence of an offshore station, shallow depth at Hl, and river input at CI may all
be factors in increasing the amount of suspended sediment at these stations.
Because suspended sediment blocks light, the true depth of the euphotic zone
(defined by the 1% light level) is lowered. Primary productivity measurements are
calibrated by the integrated chlorophyll measurements. Under these conditions.
productivity could be overestimated because, if the phytoplankton are not reached
by the light, they cannot photosynthesize and contribute as much production as
calculated. Balch et al.(1989) used this same hypothesis to explain scatter in the
Southern California Bight Study data set. Why this phenomena of overestimated
primary production as a result of increased suspended sediment would only occur
during the summer is still unclear. When these summer points are edited, the
regression improves only slightly (see figure 6). Further, because some summer
data points do not follow this pattern, more data collection is necessary to prove or
disprove this hypothesis.
Despite the unexplained scatter in the data set, these Monterey Bay models
explain more variance than other models formed for other regions. Better
sampling techniques may be one possible explanation for these improvements in
r2. MBARI uses acid-rinsed Niskin bottles fitted with non-toxic silicon tubing for
improved productivity measurements.
