this system. In Monterey Bay, surface temperatures range only from 10-13 degrees
C. This explains the low level of correlation between primary production and
temperature (r=-0.007.), because in this system, temperature is essentially a
constant. This illustrates why creating global equation to estimate primary
production is not feasible; the factors involved in regulating primary production are
different for different oceanic systems.
Surface silicate and nitrate levels are also insignificant in these regression
equations. This result does not mean that there is definitely no relationship between
primary production and nutrient levels. Nutrients are in fact vital for
phytoplankton growth; blooms are common after upwelling events, which bring up
nutrient-rich water. Considering the biology of phytoplankton and the frequency of
upwelling, the relationship between primary production and nutrient levels may be
non-linear. My regressions can only account for linear relationships, and
consequently present nutrients as insignificant. Because upwelling is so important
on the Central California coast, including some index of upwelling into these
models might improve their accuracy. Winds affect the rate of upwelling and the
amount of mixing; using wind as a variable and satellite wind data could increase
the amount of variance in primary productivity (Eppley et al., 1987)
Models 7 and 8 show delta temperature as a significant variable. Although
the addition of delta temperature does decrease the sample size, the regressions are
still significant. Delta temperature, or the change in temperature from 0-40 meters,
is a measure of the mixed layer depth. An increase in delta temperature shows the
thermocline lowering and the amount of mixing increasing. As mixing increases,
the phytoplankton cells mix lower into the euphotic zone, receive less light, and
consequently primary productivity decreases. From a biological perspective, it is
logical that delta temperature explains a portion of the variance in primary
productivity.
