levels at each depth were determined fluorometrically on a Turner Designs model
10-005 R fluorometer. Surface chlorophyll and phaeopigment levels were used as
variables, and, since satellites cannot distinguish between chlorophyll and
phaeopigments, an additional variable combining the two was also used. In
addition, the integrated chlorophyll value, which is calculated using trapezoidal
integration on the individual depth chlorophyll values, was included as a variable.
Because production occurs throughout the euphotic zone and not just at the
surface, this integrated term provides a more accurate account of how much
chlorophyll is actually present. Until a CZCS satellite is up over Monterey Bay and
its estimates of surface pigment levels are normalized to ship measurements, the
shipboard pigment data can represent the satellite data for the purpose of this
study. The nutrients, nitrate and silicate, were analyzed on a Alpkem Rapid Flow
Analysis (RFA) system using a slightly modified version of the methods of
Whitledge et al.(1981) Only the surface nutrient levels were included in the analysis.
Irradiance, or photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), measured in
mE/m2/day, represents the amount of sunlight available to phytoplankton for use in
photosynthesis during a day; for example, the cumulative PAR for a cloudy day will
be less than the cumulative PAR for a sunny day of equal length. MBARI's PAR
sensor, located onboard its research vessel, measured the light in volts, which can
then be converted to mE/m2/day. Because the instrument only records PAR for the
duration of the cruise and not for the entire day, consistent measurements of
cumulative PAR for each cruise day were not available from an in situ source.
Instead, onshore PAR data, recorded at the Monterey Bay Aquarium(MBA), is
compared with the ship PAR data. When graphed on the same scale, the on- and
offshore correlate well with each other. Because MBA PAR data was not available
for four cruise days, I compare the Aquarium’s PAR sensor data with its solar
