The dependence of the Hall-effect sensor voltage reading on temperature may be a
confounding factor in data analysis, because it automatically biases the valve readings. However,
because the bias was in the direction of decreasing voltage as temperature rose, it would have in
effect counteracted the behavior observed around the critical temperatures, where the voltage
from the sensors increased. Thus, it is possible that the valves were even more closed than they
appeared to be.
These data provide evidence for a complex relationship between valve closure and heart
rate. It is clear that there are patterns that arise in both heart rates and valve closure in response to
steadily increasing temperatures, but the question that remains is whether the valve movement
and heart rates are causally connected in some way, or if they are perhaps independently affected
by this environmental factor. Studies on other factors that cause a heart rate response and their
relationship to valve movement have found that the correlation between valve closure and heart
rate is not easily quantified. For example, Curtis et al. (2000) studied these factors in relation to
increased levels of copper in the water. While there was an easily observed connection between
long periods of valve closure and reduced heart rate, the rapid fluctuations in valve movement
were not reflected in changes in the mussels' heart rates, and the authors concluded that the
observed changes in heart rate were a direct result of increased copper concentrations. Similarly,
the rapid heart rate decline seen in this study may be a physiological consequence of the
increasing temperature, and may not be related to valve closure.
These findings offer a basis for future studies on the relationship between valve closure
and heart rates. In regards to the dependency of heart rate on valve closure, further research
should focus on the differences among various mussel species in valve movement patterns
around Herit. Since different species in the Mytilus genus have shown different average values of
