under normal conditions and responds to rapid fluctuations in environmental conditions; thus,
heart rate is a good indicator of the health of mussels in the presence of stressors (Bayne, 1976;
Sabourin and Tullis, 1981; Depledge et al., 2000). Previous research has quantified the
relationship between mussel heart rates and many environmental factors that affect its function
(Bayne, 1971; Bayne et al., 1976; Nicholson, 2002). One such factor is temperature, perhaps the
most critical abiotic factor of the intertidal zone. Organisms in this habitat may face sudden
changes in temperature within short time periods. It is well known that mussel heart rates will
increase with increasing temperature, which is one of the most important factors in establishing a
mussel’s metabolic rate (Bayne, 1976). As temperature increases, at a certain temperature, called
the critical temperature (Hert), the mussel heart rate will decrease suddenly. In 2006, Braby and
Somero conducted a study that documented the critical temperatures of heart function for
different species of marine mussels of the genus Mytilus. Although not examined quantitatively,
they observed that valve closure appeared to accompany the rapid drop in heart rate at Herit-
Based on these preliminary observations, the authors postulated that the heart rate decline in
these mussels was caused by a behavioral mechanism, valve closure. This action would isolate
the mussels from a source of oxygen, leading to a drop in pO2 within the mantle cavity. Previous
studies had shown that a reduction in pO2 of the mantle cavity resulted in a reduced heart rate in
mussels (Bayne, 1971; Curtis et al., 2000).
The main purpose of my study was to determine whether valve closure causes the decline
in heart rate observed in mussels at high temperatures. Because the relationship between valve
movement and heart rate in mussels is unclear, another goal of this research was to determine
whether there were any patterns of valve movement that were correlated to heart rate. While
Braby and Somero (2006) conducted their research on Mytilus trossulus and Mytilus
