Glycine and Anthopleura elegantissima
-3-
the algal cells and into the animal cells (Table 1, sample 3).
Sample 3 also incorporated more label into the algal cells than into
the animal cells.
Discussion
Endozoic zooxanthellae are widely distribued in marine
organisms particularly in coelenterates (Droop, 1963). That the
zooxanthellae release organic material into the incubation medium
under in vitro conditions has been demonstrated by the work of
von Holt and von Holt (1968a,b) and by Muscatine( see Muscatine 1974).
In von Holt and von Holts work with Zoanthus flosmarinus (1968a,b)
the in vivo incorporation of photosynthetically assimilated C
into the animal matrix was evidence that the coelenterate host
utilized products released by the zooxanthellae. My results may
indicate similar in vivo utilization by Anthopleura elegantissima.
Of particular interest is the comparison of C 0, and C-
glycine uptake. In samples 1 and 2 the ratio of C incorporation
in the algal cells and animal cells is approximately 1.4:1 whereas
in sample 3 the ratio is approximately 5:1. The greatly increased
ratio resulting from C-glycine uptake may result from the
zooxanthellae in Anthopleura elegantissima being unable to synthesize
their own glycine and thereby incorporating it in large concentration
when available. CO, enters through the animal tissue, goes to the
algal cells where it is acted upon photosynthetically and some of
the labelled photosynthetic products are released back to the
coelenterate host. When Cglycine is the
source the photosynthetic
abilities of the algal cells are not needed for conversion and
inorporation of(
" into the algal and animal cells. This fact, the
fact that the C source must go through animal tissue to be
incorporated by the algal cells, and the 5:1 C+-glycine uptake ratio
previously eluded to may indicate that glycine occupies an important
role in Anthopleura elegantissima symbiosis.
The metabolic relationship between Anthopleura elegantissima
and its endozoic zooxanthellae is obviously complex. Moreover there
may be important differences in the metabolic activities of the
zooxanthellae isolated from different Anthopleura elegantissima, as
well as metabolic differences in the host. The dependence of the
algal metabolism on glycine from Anthopleura elegantissima would play
an important role in the symbiosis of Anthopleura elegantissima and
its zooxanthellae.
