Glycine and Anthopleura elegantissima
-2-
For incorporation experiments three organisms of
Anthopleura elegantissima were allowed to settle onto the inside of
lids of 50ml glass jars. The jars were each filled with 40ml of fresh
seawater, to which was added lmicroCurrie of respective C source
(either Nac-0, or C+-glycine (Universal Label-New England Nuclear
Corp.)). The lids containing the coelenterates were put on the jars
and the jars were inverted and placed under a bank of flourescence
lights (150 foot-candles) and incubated for four hours. After
incubation the animals were washed in fresh seawater and the algal
and animal cells separated as described by von Holt and von Holt
(1968a). After separation both the animal and the algal fractions
were boiled in 250ml of 85% ethanol for two hours. The insoluble portion
was removed via centrifugation, the soluble portion was mixed with
200ml of petroleum ether, and the aqueous layer was removed and
reduced in volume by boiling to 5ml. This I called the "amino acid
fraction! An aposymbiotic specimen of Anthopleura elegantissima was
also incubated under the same conditions and its "amino acid fraction
was similarly extracted.
Zooxanthellae isolated from three specimens of Anthopleura
elegantissima of the 3-4cm size were incubated in 40ml of fresh sea¬
water as described. An "amino acid fraction" was prepared in the
manner described.
250 microliters was taken from each of the "amino acid fractions
added to 10ml Aquasol universal liquid scintillation cocktail (New
England Nuclear Corporation,mfg.) and counted in a Unilux II
scintillation counter for one minute. 250microliters of each "amino
acid fraction" was dried and weighed. For each sample a ratio of C
activity to weight of dry "amino acid fraction " was determined,
expressed in units of microci/gram. This ratio was then used as a
means of comparing the C uptake of different " amimo acid fraction'
samples.
Results
The results are summarized in table 1. Anthopleura
elegantissima incubated in seawater in the presence of labelled carbonate
incorporates C+0, into the "amino acid fraction " of the algal cells
as well as the animal cells( Table 1,samples 1 and 2 ). In samples
1 and 2 the zooxanthellae incorporated more C+ than the host
Anthopleura elegantissima. C -glycine was also incorporated into
