netting which passed larvae but held the larger adults. The animals were
collected daily to avoid abnormal behavior cause by unnatural or stressful
laboratory conditions. Only females with egg sacs were used in the study to
avoid possible variability due to sex and age.
In all experiments, "normal" conditions (as of temperature, salinity,
oxygen, pH, etc.) are defined as those found in the running sea water system
of Hopkins Marine Station fed by bay waters (see fig. 2). The physical set-up
used in all experiments is diagrammed in figure 1. A series of 5 to 9 50ml
graduated cylinders was placed above or below the directional light source;
each cylinder contained sea water, 12cm deep, with one experimentally
adjusted parameter. Twenty females with egg sacs were sucked into a narrow
tube (inside diameter = 0.3cm) along with enough "normal" sea water to form
a column of water 12cm long. With its upper end closed by a finger, one such
tube containing 20 animals was gently lowered into each cylinder until its
lower end rested on the bottom of the cylinder. The tube and cylinder were
allowed to sit this way for 30 minutes. The 30 minute equilibration period
was chosen as a time for which the difference between normal conditions
within the tube and its surrounding cylinder could be maintained, yet allow
the animals maximal time to adjust to the light conditions and erase any
memory of turbulence or light-dark history. In most cases the base of the
inner tube fitted tightly enough against the bottom of the graduated cylinder
to prevent significant exhange of fluid or premature escape of Tigriopus.
In the few cases where the animals did escape, the results were not used in
calculating mean movements. At zero time the number of copepods in each 3cm
segment of the inner tube was recorded; then the animals were released from
the inner tube to the environment of the cylinder by slowly pulling the tube
out of the cylinder. Two minutes later the number of animals in each of
four 3cm segments of the cylinder was recorded. The copepods usually showed
