Shannon Taylor
Introduction
Tegula funebralis, the black turban snail, is a common intertidal gastropod with a wide
vertical distribution in the intertidal zone; it occurs from the very low zone to the high-mid zone.
This wide range results in very different microhabitats for individual snails at opposite edges of
the spread—higher snails are emersed for longer during low tides and therefore experience
higher levels of thermal stress and desiccation rates. However, the snails are not uniformly
distributed by size within this range. Several studies both in the Pacific Northwest and at
Hopkins Marines Station (HMS) have established that larger Tegula are more abundant in the
low end of the snails' range, while the upper portion is occupied almost exclusively by smaller
snails (Pacific NW: Paine 1969, Markowitz, 1980, Doering and Phillips 1983; HMS: Vara and
Wright 1964, Polk 1998).
There have been many conjectured explanations for the size gradient phenomenon.
These include differences in larval settlement (Paine 1969), gradients in juvenile mortality
(Vermeij 1972), and reactions to light (Doering and Phillips 1983). However, the most common
suggestion is predation pressure, primarily by the starfish Pisaster ochraceus. Paine (1969) was
the first to suggest this possibility, hypothesizing that large snails would move into the predator-
infested low intertidal environment because the benefits of more abundant food resources
outweighed the heightened predation risk. Markowitz (1980), who found that seastars prefer
large snails to small snails and that small snails had a more effective escape response, suggested
that the gradient could also be due to small snails moving upward to escape predation. However,
large snails were found to have faster escape speeds than small snails, and the only effect of
Pisaster would be to create an opposite gradient (Doering and Phillips 1983). These authors
concluded that "responses to the sea star are not necessary for size gradient formation.'
