Blazyk 10
To examine the relationship between genetic variation within and between populations,
calculated Fsr values. To obtain an Fsr for two or more populations, the ratio between average
genetic variation within populations and between populations is subtracted from 1. If there is a
large difference between populations compared to within, the Fsr will approach 1, while if two
populations are not genetically different, Fsr will be approximately 0. In this study, comparing
all seven populations produced a negative Fsr (not statistically different from zero), which
indicates that there is a high level of gene flow between the populations.
1 thought that this might be a result of some populations obscuring differences in others,
so I decided to calculate pairwise Fsr values for all sets of locations. The majority of these were
negative, except the values between the Oregon populations and the other locations. This led me
to believe that there might be a correlation between Fsr and geographic distance between
populations. Strawberry Hill, Oregon is much farther from the other locations than they are from
one another. Indeed, when I graphed pairwise Fsr values against distance and ran a linear
regression, there was a significant positive slope, both when 1 included negative values of Fsr
and when I changed the negative values to zero (which should be the minimum value of Fsr).
By examining the slope of the regression lines on the plots of Fsr versus distance, it is
possible to estimate the average dispersal distance of that species. In both Fig. 6 and Fig. 7, the
Fsr is about 0.04 at a distance of 1000km. I compared this value to a calibration graph (Palumbi
2003), which predicted a mean larval dispersal of about 40 kilometers. This value is much less
than the hypothetical maximum (over 120 km), which may suggest that factors other than the
California current affect dispersal.
The graphs of Fsr versus distance indicate that although there may be a fairly high level
of gene flow along the American west coast (based on the fairly homogenous phylogenetic trees
