Blazyk 4
Discovering the population structure of various species may be important for its own
sake, but it has implications for fisheries policy and designing marine reserves as well. In many
areas, for example, black abalone populations are severely depleted and are being protected from
human harvesting. However, because they have very limited dispersal (and hence have few
incoming larvae from other, less depleted areas), these populations may not be able to recover on
their own (Hamm and Burton 2000)
Marine reserves are designed to have positive effects beyond their boundaries, especially
when meant to restore commercial species, where the economic value of the reserve depends on
export from nearby areas where fishing is allowed. If there is little dispersal between a reserve
and the area outside of it, this will not improve the overall fishery. However, if a high
percentage of larvae or adults migrate out of the reserve, the reserve loses its effectiveness. A
successful self-seeding reserve needs to be as big as the mean larval dispersal of the targeted
species. This is not always possible (especially since some species have potential dispersal of
hundreds of kilometers), so in some cases, a better alternative is a series of stepping stone
reserves (Palumbi 2003).
Tegula funebralis has a pelagic larval period of about 5 to 14 days (Moran 1997), which
gives it a moderate potential for dispersal (about 40 to 120 kilometers). It ranges from
Vancouver Island south along the west coast to central Baja California. Since it spans several
geographic features proposed to be barriers to dispersal and has a relatively short pelagic period,
it seemed that Tegula funebralis had the potential for interesting population structure. Here, I
compared a region of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase 1 (COl) gene of seven populations
of Tegula funebralis between Oregon and southern California. I found no significant differences
between populations, although there was a significant positive correlation between genetic and
