Blazyk 12
crustaceans, algae, mollusks, and many fish) have a pelagic larval phase of similar duration or
have comparable dispersal distances (Shanks 2003). This means that although Tegula funebralis
may not be a target species for a reserve, their population structure may be representative of
many other species that do need to be protected.
Most species with pelagic larvae appear to have dispersal distances greater than 20
kilometers, with many on the order of hundreds of kilometers (Shanks et al. 2003). This means
that it may often be impractical to create individual reserves of ideal size, remembering that the
ideal is equal to the average larval dispersal distance for targeted species. Currently, there is no
single no-take zone in the United States that is as large as 20-50 km (Palumbi 2001), let alone as
large as would be required for species with long-lived pelagic larvae. An alternative design is a
network of smaller reserves, although these must be close enough to allow significant dispersal
and recruitment between reserves (Airamé et al. 2003).
Another difficulty is that fact that delineating habitat as no-take reserves usually means
directly taking away that area from fishermen. At the moment, no-take reserves only comprise
about 0.1% of marine habitat in the US. In order to have controlled fish population sizes, it has
been estimated that this area should increase to as much as 50%. This value is impractical, at
least at this time, since it would result in serious declines in fishery harvests, despite growth of
overall fish populations (Palumbi 2001). It is clear that some equilibrium must be met, for the
current trend is that of fishing populations until they all but disappear and then moving on to
another species. It is still unclear, however, whether setting aside 20% of marine habitat as
reserves would provide a happy solution to both fishermen and declining fish populations, or if it
would merely hurt the economic value of the fisheries while not being enough to regenerate
declining marine populations.
