CERAMIDE DISRUPTS SPERM MOTILITY AND INHIBITS FERTILIZATION IN
THE PURPLE SEA URCHIN, STRONGYLOCENTROTUS PURPURATUS
Nikolai Kaestnei
Sphingolipid signaling cascades play a role in regulating egg maturation and differentiation in a
variety of organisms. To determine if a similar mechanism is involved in fertilization, S.
purpuratus gametes were treated with cell-permeable ceramide. It was found to reduce sperm
motility, decrease sperm-egg binding, and inhibit fertilization. This effect was stereospecific and
could not be mimicked by a ceramide analog differing from ceramide by only a double bond.
These results suggest a role for ceramide signaling in regulating sea urchin fertilization
Introduction
The role of phospholipid metabolites as second messengers in important signal
transduction cascades has been firmly established (1), the paradigm being the phosphoinositide
signaling cascade. This transduction cascade is initiated when phospholipase C(PLC) cleaves
phosphatidyl inositol bisphosphate (PIP2) into diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol triphosphate
(IP3). These two metabolic products serve as second messengers to respectively activate protein
kinase C(PKC) and to effect the release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum (2). An
analogous signal transduction cascade involving the degradation of sphingomyelin has gained
recent attention due to its role in antiproliferative cell responses. Most thoroughly characterized in
yeast and mammalian cells, it begins with the sphingomyelinase-mediated breakdown of
sphingomyelin into its choline head group and ceramide (3). A number of sphingomyelinase
inducers have been identified, including vitamin Dz, tumor necrosis factor-o (TNF-o), retinoic
acid, heat, ionizing irradiation, chemotherapeutic agents, and human immunodeficiency virus (4)
All lead to an increase in intracellular ceramide concentrations and result in either terminal
differentiation, apoptosis, or cell cycle arrest. These actions appear to be mediated by a ceramide¬
activated protein phospohatase (CAPP) that, in different cell types, can dephosphorylate the
