double bond. This suggests that ceramide may, in fact, have a true physiological role in the sperm
of S. purpuratus.
Perhaps a compound in the environment may signal unfavorable conditions for
development and trigger a ceramide signaling cascade that serves to prevent fertilization when
subsequent development is not likely to be successful. Since a concrete paradigm of ceramide
signaling has not been established, there is no reason to believe that CAPP must always act in
opposition to PKC and therefore affect the egg. A hypothetical sperm CAPP could serve to
dephosphorylate many of the proteins that are phosphorylated upon sperm activation in seawater,
thereby limiting motility. Alternatively, it could depress respiration by a similar mechanism.
Since little is known about sphingolipid signaling in invertebrates, and signal cascades of
sperm in general, hypotheses concerning a role for ceramide in the cellular processes of sperm
must all be viewed with caution until conclusive studies are done. Nevertheless, if ceramide is
found to inhibit sperm in a non-toxic fashion, it would not be surprising to find many of the
common elements of a sphingomyelin signal cascade inside the sperm, themselves. In addition to
providing another example of the widespread presence of a role for ceramide, such a discovery
would also help to deepen our understanding of the factors influencing and regulating fertilization
and development in sea urchins.
Though the sperm “apoptosis" presented in this discussion may seem wasteful since a sea
urchin could save much energy by not releasing its gametes in the first place, it must be
remembered that evolution does not create the perfect solution, but merely one that is better than
its predecessor. Still, one may ask how such a system could have ever evolved, since the sperm,
once it is spawned, doesn’t have much to lose by attempting fertilization despite a less than
favorable environment. Future research to clarify the method of ceramide inhibition and to
