impact on respiration. These results suggest that while motility seems to explain differences in
fertilization between the different treatments, respiration does not, possibly because the two need
not be directly linked
One final factor was examined as an explanation for the ceramide-mediated inhibition of
fertilization: the acrosome reaction. It is known that the premature induction of the acrosome
reaction will lead to the rapid death of sperm as calcium from the seawater floods the cytosol and
uncouples mitochondria (10). In addition, suppression of the reaction would hinder binding and
fertilization. However, neither effect is likely since no ceramide-specific inhibition or induction of
the acrosome reaction was observed. DMSO, however, did seem to diminish the incidence of the
reaction since all DMSO-containing treatments showed reduced levels of acrosome reaction in
comparison to seawater. A problem with these experiments, however, is the low percentage of
acrosomal reaction seen in the jelly-treated eggs. This suggests that the sperm or jelly may have
been defective and not suitable for experimentation.
Taken together, results from the fertilization, binding, and motility experiments suggest that
ceramide inhibits fertilization by reducing sperm motility and thereby diminishing sperm-egg
binding efficiency. There are two possible explanations for these results Ceramide may simply be
exhibiting a toxic effect on sperm and consequently diminishing their fertilization performance.
Due to its lipophilic nature, ceramide might intercalate into the membrane and disrupt normal
cellular processes by distorting the membrane architecture. Its C4 double bond may have the same
effect of increasing membrane fluidity as do the double bonds of unsaturated fatty acyl chains.
This would explain why dihydroceramide, without the double bond, did not cause similar
disruptions of sperm behavior. It should be noted, however, that ceramide does not appear to
produce similar disturbances in membrane dynamics in mammalian and yeast studies, despite its
