Figure Legends
Figure 1: Ceramide Inhibition of Fertilization. Eggs were treated as indicated and fertilization
assayed using darkfield microscope. Ceramide was found to inhibit fertilization in a concentration-
dependent manner. Lowest levels of fertilization (68%) were seen at 20 uM ceramide, though
ceramide-inhibition was significant in comparison to the three controls at all concentrations tested
(p5.05)
Figure 2: Reversible Inhibition of S. purpuratus Eggs. Eggs were treated with 20 uM ceramide
and fertilization reduced to 58% in unwashed eggs. This value was significantly different from the
controls (p#.01). Washed eggs did not differ in their ability to be fertilized.
Figure 3: Irreversible Inhibition of S. purpuratus Sperm. A1:1,000 sperm dilution was treated
with 10 uM ceramide and added to 1 ml of a 0.3% egg suspension in the volumes indicated.
Significant inhibition of fertilization was observed at I and 5 ul of dilution in comparison to
controls (ps.01). Fertilization in these conditions was reduced to 45 and 80%, respectively
Figure 4: Ceramide Inhibition of Sperm-Egg Binding. AO.3% egg suspension was fixed 20
seconds after addition of a sperm dilution and sperm-egg binding assayed using darkfield
microscopy. The number of sperm bound to each egg at its maximum diameter was recorded,
Ceramide-treated sperm bound significantly less than control sperm (ps.05) with only 0.5 sperm
bound per egg. Controls ranged between 2.5 and 3.2 sperm per egg.
Figure 5: Ceramide Effect on the Acrosome Reaction. Treated sperm were incubated with egg
jelly and the incidence of acrosomal reaction assayed under phase-contrast microscopy. Ceramide
dihydroceramide, and DMSO-treated sperm all inhibited the reaction significantly in comparison
to seawater (pS.05). 22% of seawater-treated sperm reacted while only 11-13% of sperm treated
with the other reagents showed any acrosomal process.
Figure 6: Ceramide Effect on Sperm Motility. Absorbance at 540nm was assessed in a
spectrophotometer before and after centrifugation of sperm treated as indicated. Changes in
ODsao were plotted as a percent of original readings. Ceramide-treated sperm (22%) were most
similar to formaldehyde-treated sperm (19%) in their change in absorbance after centrifugation.
Highest changes in absorption were observed in seawater and dihydroceramide controls (SI and
50%, respectively). DMSO was curiously in the middle (39%)
Figure 7: Sperm Respiration Rates. Sperm were placed in the chamber of an oxygen-sensing
electrode and basal respiration established (right). Treatments were added (middle), the system
allowed to equilibrate, and final rates of oxygen consumption (lest) compared to initial rates.
Ceramide-treated sperm appeared to cease respiring, while DMSO and seawater treatments
appeared to little affect sperm respiration. Dihydroceramide approached ceramide in its ability to
suppress respiration. Numbers refer to the slopes corresponding to each treatment and are meant
for qualitative comparisons only.
