Methods
Purple sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus) were collected at low tide in Half
Moon Bay, California and maintained in covered, flow-through tanks at Hopkins Marine Station.
Urchins were spawned by immersing an animal halfway in seawater and applying a 50 V current
or injection with 2 ml 0.5 MKCl. Female gametes were collected by inverting the spawning
urchin on a beaker filled with filtered seawater, whereas male gametes were pipetted into a 1.5 ml
Eppendorf tube and stored dry at 4°C. All gametes were pipetted using blunted pipette tips, and
eggs were never dejellied. The density of an egg suspension was determined by centrifuging a 1
ml sample in a Bauer-Schenk tube and recording the percent volume of eggs. Sperm suspensions
were obtained by diluting the dry sperm with filtered seawater. The concentration of sperm used
for a given experiment was based on the maximal sperm dilution that could be used to produce
near 100% fertilization in seawater (in most experiments this was a 1:50,000 dilution achieved by
adding 20 ul of a 1:1,000 dilution to 1 ml of seawater). Fertilization was assessed by placing two
drops of an unfixed sperm-egg mixture on a microscope slide and determining the percentage of
eggs with a clearly defined fertilization envelope at lOX under darkfield conditions. Co ceramide
and C, dihydroceramide were obtained from Calbiochem and dissolved in DMSO to create 10
mM stock solutions. Both solutions were stored at -20 °C when not in use.
Fertilization. 1 ml of a 0.3% egg suspension was added to each of twelve 3 ml multiwell
Falcon dishes in a 15 °C cold room. Exposure to 5, 10, and 20 uM concentrations of ceramide and
dihydroceramide was achieved by adding appropriate volumes of stock solutions to each of the
egg suspensions, and the eggs were incubated for 5 minutes. A DMSO control contained the
equivalent amount of DMSO as used to make the ceramide solutions, while a seawater control
contained the same volume of seawater as total volume of solution used in the ceramide
