cells, but does not rule out the operation of a sphingolipid signaling pathway later in the
development of sea urchins.
The observed inhibition of fertilization by ceramide appears to ensue from an inability of
the sperm to bind eggs. Microscopic examination of the sperm indicated that ceramide-treated
sperm were significantly less motile and ceased moving many minutes before sperm treated with
any of the other reagents. An attempt to quantify sperm motility using the Nelson
spectrophotometer assay provided mixed results. Ceramide suppressed sperm motility and slowed
the sperm sedimentation rate in the centrifuge. Dihydroceramide had no effect on sperm
swimming ability, but the intermediate swimming rate for DMSO was puzzling since the
dihydroceramide sample also contained DMSO. It is possible that DMSO reduced sperm motility
as indicated, and that dihydroceramide reverses this effect while ceramide amplifies it. This would
make doubtful the use of dihydroceramide as a benign negative control for the specific effects of
ceramide. Nevertheless, this qualitative analysis seems to support the motility characteristics
clearly visible under the microscope
The respiration studies similarly cloud the use of dihydroceramide as a control. While
respiration and motility are not perfectly linked, a reduced rate of motility might indicate, or be
the reason for, a decline in respiratory rate. Such a correlation was found for ceramide, which
completely halted respiration in sperm. Similarly, seawater and DMSO did not cause any
appreciable difference in the respiration rate of sperm. Oddly, the addition of dihydroceramide led
to a large reduction in respiration rate exceeded only by ceramide itself. Sperm that exhibited this
drop were examined under the microscope and found to be swimming normally. It is possible that
the compound, though benign when assessing motility and fertilization, is toxic as far as
respiration is concerned. On the other hand, DMSO appeared to affect motility, but had little
