been determined to be much less thermally stable than the cytoplasmic isoform, cMDH,
under in vitro conditions (Somero, pers. comm.). In one phase of this study, it was
determined whether this difference persists under more realistic protein concentrations,
using bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a model protein. Since solutions containing high
concentrations of BSA are more crowded than dilute solutions, it would be reasonable to
expect some degree of stabilization as a result of molecular crowding. Enzymes undergo
configurational changes during catalysis, so it is also reasonable to expect that kinetic
parameters such as Vmax and Km are affected by molecular crowding.
Km and Vmax are theoretical quantities describing the catalytic activity of an enzyme. The
Michaelis-Menten model, the basis for the calculation of these quantities, assumes that an
intermediate in enzymatic action is the formation of an enzyme-substrate complex, which
can either dissociate back into enzyme and substrate or go on to form enzyme and product.
At high concentrations of substrate, the substrate will saturate the enzyme, so the limiting
steps in the reaction will be the ability of the enzyme to undergo a conformational change
and the speed of conversion of substrate to product. Since a further increase in substrate
concentration will not have an effect on these steps, the velocity of the reaction will reach a
maximum, Vmax, as substrate concentration is increased. Km is defined to be the
substrate concentration at which the velocity of the reaction is half of Vmax. Km often is a
measure of the binding affinity for the substrate, the tendency to form the enzyme-substrate
complex. If half-velocity is reached at a low substrate concentration, it means the enzyme
has a high binding affinity for the substrate, i.e., a low Km. If the enzyme requires a lot of
substrate to reach this level, the enzyme has a low affinity for substrate, i.e., a high Km.
Solutions of dextran, a high molecular weight polymer, have been shown to decrease the
apparent Km of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), an enzyme involved in anaerobic
metabolism (Laurent, 1971). This can be explained by exclusionary effects. With part of
