the volume of the medium excluded by the polymer, the activity coefficients of the other
components increase (Laurent, 1971). In a crowded solution, the concentration of
pyruvate, an LDH substrate, is higher in the solution accessible to it than it would be in
pure water. LDH has more substrate available to it, and hence has a lower Km in the
presence of dextran (Laurent, 1971). The present study used polyethylene glycol,
molecular weight 8000 (PEG-8000), to study the effect of a large molecule on KmPYT and
Vmax. An additional area of study involved the effect of glycerol on LDH kinetics. Since
glycerol is a small molecule like water, it does not produce exclusion effects, so its
influence on enzymatic function is not due to molecular crowding. Glycerol is miscible
with water and, like PEG-8000, its solutions are more viscous than water. Although
glycerol solutions are less viscous than PEG-8000 solutions with the same concentration,
glycerol could provide a way to study viscosity effects on enzyme function which are
independent of molecular crowding.
Evidence has accumulated that water itself is an important factor influencing conformational
changes in molecules. It has been shown that 60 water molecules bind to hemoglobin as it
goes from the deoxygenated to the oxygenated state (Colombo et al., 1992). Rand et al.
(1992) urge one "not to ignore water as a ligand in allosterism." The activity of water
varies depending on the constituents of a solution, and effects on ligand binding can be due
solely to water. Rand et al. (1992) found that Km of glucose for hexokinase depended
only on the activity of water, which was "adjusted with high molecular weight osmolytes.
It was also found that glucose binding entails the release of 65+10 water molecules (Rand
et al., 1992). When macromolecules are present, water tends to arrange itself around them
in layers. Much of water in the cell is likely to be found in this bound state, although the
exact extent is a matter of some controversy. The difference in behavior between this water
and free (unbound) water, is responsible for changes in the activity of water in the presence
of macromolecules.
