activity of G. mirabilis AA-LDH at 20° (Table 1), but this medium was not used for other
species or temperatures because its high viscosity (about 19 times that of water) made it
difficult to work with. By crowding A4-LDH, PEG-8000 solutions likely make it difficult
for AA-LDH to undergo the full range of motion necessary for function, thereby slowing
catalysis and lowering Vmax values. This also explains BSA’s effect on mMDH activity
(Fig. 6). PEG-8000 molecules are too large to fit into the binding cleft of A4-LDH, so
PEG-8000's action is probably not due instead to direct interference. 20% glycerol
solutions, which have about the same viscosity as 3.5% PEG-8000 solutions (2.2 cp. at
), produced much larger drops in catalysis rates than 3.5% PEG-8000 did (Table 1).
22
Glycerol may act by getting into the binding cleft and slowing catalysis, as it is a small
molecule. Dunn et al. (1991) postulated that solvent friction slows enzymes. When LDH
closes upon the substrates during binding, the water molecules in the vacuole become
highly ordered (Dunn et al., 1991). With glycerol present, this process will be affected, so
glycerol could act in this fashion. P. charcoti AA-LDH retained more activity than rabbit or
G. mirabilis A4-LDH in the presence of glycerol or PEG-8000 (Table 1). Since P.charcoti
resides in Antarctic waters, which as a result of their temperature have a viscosity 1.8 times
that of water at 20°C, this result may be due to adaptation to a high viscosity medium. It
could be due to the presence of a population of P.charcoti LDH molecules whose
conformations are too "loose" to be functional at high temperatures or low viscosities, but
which become functional upon a drop in temperature or introduction into a more viscous
medium (P. Fields, pers. comm.). Enzymes from cold-temperature organisms are thought
to be more flexible (Fields and Somero, in prep), and since enzymes continually sample
small configurational changes, there will be a certain population of molecules which at a
given moment are "looser" than others. At 20° and no solute present, the reference point
for the Vmax calculations, some of the P.charcoti molecules may be nonfunctional, but all
the G. mirabilis and rabbit AA-LDH molecules are likely functional, as they normally exist
at higher temperatures.
11
