INTRODUCTION
The cell is a very complex environment, but in vitro biochemistry is usually carried out in
dilute buffer solutions with the components of interest highly purified (Garner & Burg,
1994). While this type of simplification is often necessary, it can yield an inaccurate view
of cellular processes. A very dilute solution is thermodynamically ideal, but the cytoplasm
of the cell deviates greatly from ideality (Garner & Burg, 1994). Proteins and small
molecules in solution affect one another’s activities, and while this situation can be modeled
by multicomponent thermodynamics, it is difficult to predict how the activity of a given
macromolecule will be affected (Garner & Burg, 1994).
When a significant part of a solution is taken up by macromolecules, the spaces between
them are no longer large compared to the size of the macromolecules. In such a case,
creating a space for another large molecule is entropically unfavorable because of the higher
order of the resulting solution (Garner and Burg, 1994). Because proteins are flexible and
can sample many possible configurations, this crowding effect may favor a more compact
protein structure. When proteins are exposed to heat, they denature. Because denatured
proteins occupy a greater volume than native proteins, it is plausible that macromolecular
crowding enhances protein stability.
The protein concentration of the cytoplasm is very high, about 20% (Fulton, 1982). The
mitochondrial protein concentration is even higher, about 56% (Srere, 1981). This is
similar to the concentration found in protein crystals, which have been used to model the
mitochondrial environment (Srere, 1981). In addition to having a higher protein
concentration than the cytoplasm, the mitochondrion contains its own genetic code. Some
enzymes have separate mitochondrial and cytoplasmic isoforms. Malate dehydrogenase
(MDH), which mediates the conversion of oxaloacetic acid and NADH to malate and
NAD+ in the Krebs cycle, is one such enzyme. The mitochondrial isoform, mMDH, has
