enhancement of mMDH stability in the presence of high BSA concentrations. mMDH
probably shows much more stability enhancement than cMDH because it adopts a looser
and more open conformation in dilute, in vitro, conditions. BSA forces this loose
conformation into a more compact state, decreasing the likelihood of denaturation. CMDH
is probably already so compact and stable that addition of a crowding agent has little effect
on its conformation or its thermal stability. The lower stability of mMDH is probably an
adaptation to the high protein concentration of the mitochondrion. It has been postulated
that there is a tradeoff between stability and function in enzymes (Somero, 1995). With a
loose, open conformation, mMDH is more likely than cMDH to be flexible enough to
catalyze effectively at high protein concentrations. This study showed that much of the gap
in apparent thermal stability between cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms is due to
differences in the protein concentrations of the cytosol and mitochondria. Extrapolating the
mMDH curve of Fig. 3 out to 500 mg/ml, the approximate protein concentration of the
mitochondrion (Srere, 1981), and the cMDH curve out to 200 mg/ml, the approximate
cytosolic protein concentration (Fulton, 1982), there is still a difference in thermal stability
between the isoforms, but it is much smaller than the difference under dilute conditions.
The flattening of the mMDH curve near 100 mg/ml (Fig. 3) is probably due to the adoption
of a substantially compacted state, which is more or less immune to additional crowding
effects. This is likely the state that cMDH already exists in at 42°, even at low BSA
concentrations. Fig. 4 shows the similarity between the denaturation curves of cMDH in
Img/mi BSA and 75 mg/ml BSA at 42°C.
This present study also examined molecular crowding effects on enzyme kinetics, the other
half of the stability versus function equation. Consistent with a model of enzyme activity in
which a more compact, less flexible enzyme configuration results in a lower rate of
catalysis, 3.5% PEG-8000 solutions produced small reductions in catalytic activity in the
three species studied (Table 1). 20% PEG-8000 produced a large drop in the catalytic
10
