Genistein does not inhibit G6PD release in sea urchin eggs. In addition, the
Western immunoblot indicates that tyrosine phosphorylation is being inhibited under
these conditions. Taken together, these results show that tyrosine kinases may not be
involved in fertilization-induced G6PD release. Although genistein may not be
preventing G6PD release upon fertilization, it may be affecting pentose shunt activity,
Preliminary results from the in vivo NADPH assay show that there is a 77% reduction in
the amount of NADPH fluorescence in genistein-treated zygotes. However, because a
reduction of least 50% can be accounted for by non-enzymatic effects, it is unclear
whether genistein is reducing the activity of the pentose shunt, or the reduction in
fluorescence emission is due to some other factor. Further investigation of genistein
effects on the pentose shunt will have to be done.
Tyrphostin 51 also does not seem to inhibit G6PD release in sea urchin eggs
However, as evidenced by the Western immunoblot, this compound does not seem to
be inhibiting tyrosine phosphorylation. Moore and Kinsey (1995) studied the effects of
tyrphostin B42, a compound in the same family of inhibitors as tyrphostin 51. They
found that 100 uM tyrphostin B42 blocked tyrosine kinase activity. However, subtle
differences in structure between these two compounds may account for the lack of
inhibition by tyrphostin 51. For example, tyrphostin 51 may not be as permeant as
tyrphostin B42. It is possible that tyrphostin 51 was not getting into the cells during the
90 minute incubation. This could explain its lack of tyrosine kinase inhibition as well as
its lack of G6PD release and cell-division inhibition. Another possibility for the inability
of tyrphostin 51 to block tyrosine kinase activity is that tyrphostin 51 is not effective at a
100 uM concentration. However, because the ICso of tyrphostin 51 is 800 nM (Sigma
catalog, 1995), the 100 uM concentration should have been more than sufficient to cause
inhibition.
