ligand of the receptor. Thus, in these cells G6PD release seems to require the activation
of cellular tyrosine kinases.
While tyrosine kinase activity is necessary for G6PD release in somatic
mammalian cells, the correlation has not yet been made in sea urchin eggs at
fertilization. It is known, however, that in sea urchin eggs two- to fourfold increases in
tyrosine kinase activity (Satoh and Garbers, 1985) and the production of newly tyrosine-
phosphorylated proteins (Ciapa and Epel, 1991) occur minutes after fertilization. One
protein that is found to be tyrosine-phosphorylated soon after fertilization is the 350
kDa sperm receptor (Abassi and Foltz, 1994). This protein becomes phosphorylated in
response to sperm as well as bindin, the purified ligand of the receptor (Abassi and
Foltz, 1994). Hence, there must be activation of at least one tyrosine kinase by the
sperm receptor binding its ligand. Bindin is the species-specific protein isolated from
sperm that helps sperm to attach to eggs during fertilization (Lopez et al., 1993).
Therefore, if the signal for G6PD release is downstream of the activation of this tyrosine
kinase, treatment with bindin would be a direct and simple way to test whether GéPD
release involves tyrosine kinase activity.
Along with bindin, antibodies against the sperm receptor have been shown to
prevent fertilization (Foltz et al., 1993). Assuming this means that the antibodies are
binding to the receptor, they may also be causing tyrosine phosphorylation of the
receptor. If this is true, then anti-receptor antibody treatment would also be a simple
way to determine if G6PD release requires the activation of this particular tyrosine
kinase.
In an effort to determine the general role of tyrosine kinases in the activation of
the egg after fertilization, Moore and Kinsey (1995) have studied the effects of tyrosine
kinase inhibitors including genistein and tyrphostin B42 on sea urchin eggs. Genistein,
a flavinoid, competitively inhibits tyrosine kinases at their ATP-binding sites (see
reference in Edgecombe et al., 1991), and the family of tyrphostins competitively inhibit
