including the 350 kDa sperm receptor (Abassi and Foltz, 1994). Although tyrosine
kinase activity is known to increase after fertilization, its involvement in overall egg
activation or in the activation of specific biochemical pathways is an area of continuing
study.
The pentose phosphate shunt is a very important pathway used by many cells to
produce compounds necessary for cell growth and division including NADPH and
ribose units. NADPH is required by various pathways in the cell, including lipid, DNA
and protein synthesis, and riboses are needed for nucleotide synthesis. In sea urchin
eggs, the pentose shunt has been shown to be activated soon after fertilization (Swezey
and Epel, 1995). This activation is correlated with the release and activation of the rate-
limiting enzyme in the pathway, G6PD. G6PD is in a bound, inactive state in
unfertilized eggs, and in a free, soluble, active state in fertilized eggs (Swezey and Epel,
1986). The mechanism for G6PD release and activation of the pentose shunt in sea
urchin eggs at fertilization is currently unknown. It has been shown however, that in
mammalian rat kidney cells, the mechanism that activates the shunt through the release
of G6PD requires tyrosine kinase activity (Tian et al., 1991). In this case, treatment of
cells with PDGF causes the tyrosine kinase in the PDGFR to become active, which is
necessary for G6PD release (Tian et al. 1991).
The purpose of my study was to determine whether the mechanism for G6PD
release in sea urchin eggs after fertilization is similar to the mechanism used by
mammalian somatic cells, requiring tyrosine kinase activity.
Bindin and the Antibody Against the Sperm Receptor
As Abassi and Foltz (1994) have shown, when eggs are treated with bindin, the
sperm receptors within the egg membrane become tyrosine-phosphorylated, indicating
that a tyrosine kinase has been activated. Incubating eggs with anti-receptor antibodies
may also cause a similar response of tyrosine kinase activation. I studied the effects of
