control (lane 4) shows several bands in this region, indicating that phosphorylation of
tyrosine residues (tyrosine kinase activity) has increased after fertilization. The
genistein-treated sample (lane 2), does not show these bands, verifying that genistein is
inhibiting general tyrosine kinase activity. However, the tyrphostin 51-treated sample
(lane 3) shows these bands, suggesting that tyrphostin 51 is not blocking tyrosine kinase
activity. Lane 5 is the antibody control (no lysate), and lane 6 is the lysate control (non¬
specific primary antibody) in which no bands other than antibody were detected.
Although genistein may not be inhibiting G6PD release, I wanted to determine
its effect on activity of the pentose shunt. Using a fluorescence assay, I found that the
rise in NADPH after fertilization in genistein-treated eggs was much less than the rise in
controls after both 60 minute and 90 minute genistein incubations. There was a 77%
reduction in NADPH fluorescence in genistein-treated zygotes. I deduced that a
reduction of approximately 50% can be accounted for by non-enzymatic effects of
genistein by the following experiment; The fluorescence of NADPH in filtered sea
water, in the absence of eggs, was assayed, and after adding genistein the fluorescence
signal reduced immediately by approximately 50%. This suggests that genistein is
causing a 23% decrease in shunt activity.
Discussion
Fertilization activates the egg metabolism, causing the egg to restart the cell cycle
resulting in growth and division. The activation of the zygote metabolism results from
the stimulation of many different biochemical pathways including the pentose
phosphate shunt. One hypothesis for the activation of the zygote metabolism includes
signal transduction events involving tyrosine kinase activity (see reference in Moore
and Kinsey, 1995). It has been shown that soon after fertilization, tyrosine kinase
activity in the egg increases two- to fourfold (Satoh and Garbers, 1985), and various
different newly tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins appear (Ciapa and Epel, 1991)
