Effect of Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors on G6PD Release
The method l used to learn if general tyrosine kinase activity is involved in
causing the G6PD release after fertilization was to treat eggs with the tyrosine kinase
inhibitors genistein and tyrphostin 51. Incubation of unfertilized eggs with 100 uM
genistein for 1 hour pre-fertilization does not block fertilization-induced G6PD release
(Figure 1) as 1 determined using the G6PD assay. This concentration of genistein was
used because Moore and Kinsey (1995) have shown that at concentrations between 37
uM and 150 uM genistein effectively blocks tyrosine kinase activity without disrupting
serine and threonine kinase activity. Fertilization of genistein-treated eggs occurs
normally as evidenced by FE elevation 1-2 minutes after adding sperm, however
development is arrested. Four hours after fertilization, division of genistein-treated
zygotes to the 2-cell stage had not occurred.
Similarly, incubation of unfertilized eggs with 100 uM tyrphostin 51 for 90
minutes pre-fertilization does not seem to have an effect on G6PD release (Figure 2).
Again, Moore and Kinsey (1995) showed that this concentration would adequately
block tyrosine kinase activity in sea urchin eggs. Fertilization of tyrphostin 51-treated
eggs occurs normally. However, zygotes in this group appear to develop normally as
well. Both control and tyrphostin-treated zygotes divided to the 2-cell stage by 4 hours
post-fertilization.
To ensure that genistein and tyrphostin 51 were actually inhibiting tyrosine
phosphorylation, Iimmunoprecipitated zygotes after pre-treatment with genistein and
tyrphostin with the anti-phosphotyrosine antibody, PY-20. I incubated a 1% suspension
of eggs in 0.1% DMSO (controls) or in 100 uM inhibitor for 90 minutes, and then
fertilized them and took samples. As expected, the resulting Western immunoblot
shows that the unfertilized control (lane 1) does not show many bands in the 65-98 kDa
region, indicating that tyrosine kinase activity is low. Also as expected, the fertilized
10
