Conclusions
My study suggests that the activity of the tyrosine kinases blocked by genistein is
not necessary for G6PD release in S. purpuratus eggs at fertilization. These results lead
me to the following general questions which must be answered to get a better
understanding of the mechanisms involved in G6PD release and pentose shunt
activation at fertilization of sea urchin eggs, as well as the involvement of tyrosine
kinases in development. (1) Are there tyrosine kinases that are not inhibited by
genistein which lead to G6PD release? While genistein is a general tyrosine kinase
inhibitor, it most likely does not inhibit every tyrosine kinase in the cell. To be sure that
tyrosine kinase activity is not required for G6PD release, effects of various other
inhibitors would have to be studied. (2) Are any early developmental events blocked by
genistein-inhibition of tyrosine kinases? We know that some of the later events of egg
activation, including pronuclear migration, DNA synthesis, and cell division, are
blocked by genistein. We also know that the early event of fertilization membrane
elevation is not blocked (Moore and Kinsey, 1995), indicating that the early intracellulai
Caz rise is occurring. However, we do not know how genistein effects some of the
other early events of fertilization, including the significant pH rise needed for proper
development. (3) How would inhibiting tyrosine phosphatase activity affect
fertilization-induced G6PD release? By inhibiting tyrosine phosphatase activity, the
relative amount of tyrosine phosphorylation would rise over time and might cause a
release of G6PD if tyrosine phosphorylation is required for release in sea urchin eggs
Answers to these questions will help to elucidate the mechanism involved with
G6PD release at fertilization of sea urchin eggs, and will help to determine whether this
mechanism is similar to that used by somatic mammalian cells. These mammalian cells
differ substantially from sea urchin eggs, both in type of cell and event that causes
G6PD release. The rat kidney cells are somatic mammalian cells whereas the sea urchin
