which increase the mechanical strength of the threads. These scleroproteins are stabilized
by protein cross-linking. Cross-linking enzymes which may be involved include
transglutaminase, lysyl oxidase, and peroxidase (Waite, 1983).
P. californica was hypothesized to follow the M. edulis adhesion system for the
stickiness of its eggs. Enzyme inhibitors for the above enzymes were tested, and results
suggested the involvement of transglutaminase in egg adhesion. However, other evidence
suggests that the adhesive eggs do not directly conform to the mussel model system.
Materials and Methods
P. californica colonies were collected from the intertidal zone at Boat Works Beach,
Hopkins Marine Station, throughout the time of the study. Eight colonies were used in the
study, with successful spawning in all but one of the colonies. Worm tubes were isolated
from the colony fragment using forceps, then transferred to the desired test solution for
spawning. Worms spawned spontaneously when the tube was broken. In a few cases,
worms began shedding when stressed, before the tube was fully isolated. In these cases,
the whole colony fragment was transferred to the different conditions. Eggs from each
worm were used for multiple tests by transferring the shedding worm to bowls containing
different solutions. Spawning and handling of the worms was carried out as described by
Costello, et al (1957) for the related species Sabellaria vulgaris. The worms were
maintained in a tank with flowing seawater, and colonies were replaced every 2-3 weeks.
Egg adhesiveness was measured using a manometer to monitor water pressure
required to free the eggs from a glass surface (30-ml glass bowl; diameter S cm, height 3.5
cm). An elevated bottle with a bottom spout served as the water source. The bottle was
connected to tubing leading to a manometer (1-ml pipette) and pipette tip. A clamp to
control water pressure was placed on the tubing between the water source and the
manometer. UV-treated, filtered seawater (FSW) was used to measure water pressure in
all solutions.
