concentrations, up to 10-7 M (O.1 uM), arguing against the possibility that DC was directly
affecting the egg rather than acting on the enzyme.
Although the results for GEE are inconclusive, the consistent inhibition of
stickiness by DC and PUT suggests that TGase is involved in increasing egg adhesion.
The calcium requirement for adhesion further reinforces the presence of TGase in triggering
egg adhesion, since TGase is calcium dependent.
The ability to inhibit stickiness could increase the usefulness of P. californica as a
model for annelid development. Controlling egg stickiness, by spawning in O.1 uM DC,
would permit experimental manipulations, such as treatments in different solutions without
centrifugation that could be damaging to the eggs.
The role of TGase in causing egg adhesion is unknown. TGase acts by cross-
linking lysine and glutamine residues in peptide bonds in a transamidation reaction (Stryer,
1988). The most studied TGase activity is in the cross-linking of fibrin for blood clotting
TGase activity has also been dicovered in fertilization envelope assembly in
Stronglyocentrotus purpuratus eggs (Battaglia and Shapiro, 1988), endocytosis of yolk
protein in Xenopus laevis eggs (Tucciarone and Lanclos, 1981), and exocytosis of
transferrin receptors in rat reticulocytes (Grasso, et al, 1990).
Several hypotheses for the role of TGase in P. californica egg adhesion are
presented here, but they are merely speculative. One possibility is a conformational change
imposed on surface proteins. Proteins may have regions of stickiness that initially are not
exposed. TGase action may alter the proteins so that the sticky regions are available for
adhesion. Another hypothesis is that sticky proteins may be present in somewhat sparse
distribution around the cell, but upon contact with a surface, the proteins are cross-linked
so they are concentrated at the region of contact. This would result in increased order and
concentration of sticky proteins at the area of contact. Alternately, Ca24 and TGase may be
involved in the exocytosis of vacuoles containing a sticky substance from within the egg,
perhaps upon contact with seawater.
