also stated by Abbott, et al, 1980). Eggs were shed from each body segment, and emerged
in single-cell columns. The eggs did not appear to stick well to one another, however, as
light agitation disrupted the cell column. Upon reaching a surface such as glass, the eggs
seemed firmly adhered at contact, although the actual time required to cause stickiness is
unknown.
The effects of altering proteins and carbohydrates were measured by spawning into
protease and borate to break down surface proteins and oxidize surface carbohydrates,
respectively. The charge of the egg surface was also measured using a positively-charged
polylysine coat on the glass. Results (Fig. 1) showed reduction of adhesion by protease,
and increase by polylysine. Borate results were inconclusive.
Measurements of adhesion after fertilization showed a slight increase in stickiness
following the early cleavages (Fig. 2). The envelope was successfully removed after
fertilization using the sodium citrate/sucrose solution, and demembranated embryos were
unsticky. This is contrary to Strathmann (1987), which suggests that demembranated eggs
and embryos are sticky. Observed demembranation of unfertilized eggs also eliminated
stickiness, so this condition was used as a control for the stickiness (Fig. 3).
Spawning into various conditions of calcium resulted in different levels of adhesion
(Fig. 4). Calcium-free seawater lowered stickiness only slightly, but addition of EDTA as
a chelator substantially lowered the adhesion. Addition of CaCl crystals and transfer to
FSW restored stickiness.
Enzymes involved in scleroprotein stabilization in the M. edulis model were tested
using several inhibitors (Table 1.) Dansylcadaverine (DC), putrescine (PUT), and
ethylenediamine (EDA) were the only inhibitors that showed a consistent prevention or
decrease of stickiness (Fig. 5). Only sulfanilate (SUL) could be considered uninhibiting to
the adhesion process, while the other inhibitors remain inconclusive. DC was the most
effective inhibitor of stickiness, so a concentration dilution series was tested from 10-4 to
10-8 M (Fig. 6). Effective inhibition was observed up to O.1 uM.
