Results of adhesion to different surfaces suggests that only the extreme results are
valid while the others are inconclusive. The results may be highly inconclusive due to the
subjectivity of the test. Water pressure was applied until the majority of the eggs were
freed from the surface, but the definition of majority was subjective for each trial,
especially since the eggs were distributed differently on each surface. Furthermore, the
eggs had a natural variation of stickiness. The variation may not have been evenly
distributed such that a certain area of eggs may have had extremely sticky or unsticky eggs.
These problems had no controls for consistency, so they may have added to the error in
measurements. Because of the subjectivity of the tests, slight differences in water pressure
are not significant.
The variable adhesion to different surfaces poses the question of how the eggs are
attched to the surface. Perhaps two factors, the charge of the egg and the action of TGase
determine the adhesion to any surface. This hypothesis, however, would require that the
less adhesive surfaces are either more negatively charged, or somehow prevent the action
of TGase. The factors affecting stickiness should be investigated further.
The significance of the sticky eggs in nature is also unknown. However, the water
pressure necessary to free the eggs from any tested surface appears to be far less than the
pressure of the waves in the intertidal region. Perhaps the eggs can resist surge or swells,
so they can settle and adhere to the ocean bottom once they are carried past the surf zone.
Adhesion in water is a phenomena with both biological and industrial significance.
Biologically, the significance of egg adhesion may be to increase the fertilization rate of the
eggs (by reducing dilution rate of eggs), or reduce predation by plankton-consuming
animals in the early stages after fertilization (since the eggs would be on the ocean floor
rather than free-floating). P. californica fertilization appears to be very successful, as
larvae are abundant in plankton (Eckelbarger, 1976). This reproductive success may be
attributed in part to the adhesion of the eggs. Industially, the adhesion of P. californica
eggs may serve as a model for making synthetic adhesives for use in marine environments.
