The experiments were conducted using two methods. The first required spawing
directly into test solutions by placing the shedding worm into the test solution. The test
solutions were FSW, calcium-free seawater (OCaSW), OCaSW with
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA; 5 mM), FSW with protease (0.1%) or borate (10
mM), and FSW with a polylysine surface coat (five microliters of polylysine in 450
microliters of distilled water applied to the bottom of a glass bowl, then blotted off and
allowed to dry). The second method involved spawning into OCaSW-O.02 M
glycylglycine (pH 8) with EDTA as a chelator, then slowly decanting off the OCaSW, and
pouring on a different solution. Enzyme inhibitors for transglutaminase, peroxidase,
trypsin, and lysyl oxidase were tested using this method. See Table 1.
Adhesiveness was also tested on different surfaces, both synthetic and natural.
Eggs were shed directly onto the surfaces, allowed to settle for several minutes, then tested
for their stickiness to each surface. These tests were performed in a petri dish rather than a
glass bowl, so the results do not directly correlate to the tests above. Also, fewer trials
were performed on each surface, resulting in more error in the measurements.
The controls for adhesion were eggs spawned in FSW for stickiness, and
demembranated eggs for unstickiness. Demembranation was carried out using a 1:1
solution of 0.25 M sodium citrate and 1 M sucrose (pH adjusted to 5-6 with hydrochloric
acid) according to Winesdorfer (1967).
The majority of the experiments used unfertilized eggs, although unintended
fertilization was observed in some cases, and may have slightly affected results. Fertilized
eggs were tested for stickiness during various stages of early development. No readily
visible indications of fertilization were apparent prior to cleavage, so testing prior to first
cleavage was not possible.
Results
While spawning was successful in early April, many more eggs were obtained per
worm in late May, indicating that the natural season for spawning begins in late spring (as
