Investigations of the Adhesive Properties of
Phragmatopoma californica Eggs
Annie Chiu
Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific Grove, CA, 93950
Spring 1993, 175H
Abstract
Phragmatopoma californica is a marine annelid that sheds sticky eggs. The
adhesion of the eggs was found to be dependent on trace levels of calcium.
Transglutaminase inhibitors dansylcadaverine and putrescine prevented or lowered
stickiness, indicating the involvement of tranglutaminase cross-linking in the adhesion
process. Other substrates that prevented stickiness were protease and ethylenediamine.
The egg surface adhered to a polylysine coat, indicating a negatively-charged membrane.
Adhesion does not appear to follow the model system of Mytilus edulis, so P. californica
may present a new system of adhesion in water.
Introduction
Phragmatopoma californica is an intertidal polychaete that sheds eggs that adhere to
many surfaces. Previous investigations of the species have focused on the metamorphosis
(Dales, 1952; Eckelbarger and Chia, 1976; Eckelbarger, 1977), reef-building (Waite, et al,
1992), and settling patterns (Barry, 1989; Eckelbarger, 1976). No mention is made in past
literature describing or studying the adhesive properties of the eggs, with the exception of a
brief description given by Strathmann (1987) for the family Sabellariidae.
Phragmatopoma originally included two species, P. lapidosa and P. californica.
The two species are now considered a single species, called P. lapidosa californica (Barry,
1989), or simply P. californica. The species is reef-dwelling, living in colonies of mixed
sexes (Barry, 1989). Colonies continually increase in size when larvae settle on existing
adult tubes (Eckelbarger, 1976).
P. californica build their sand tubes by cementing grains of sand with organic
mortar containing high levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (DOPA) (Waite, 1992).
The presence of DOPA in the mortar suggests use of the mussel adhesion system as a
model for the stickiness of the eggs. The mussel Mytilus edulis uses byssus threads
containing DOPA for adhesion (Waite, 1985). The byssus threads contain scleroproteins
