APPENDIX A: DNA MICROINJECTION TECHNIQUE
In injecting the GFL cells, the Eppendorf Microinjector and Micromanipulator
were used to insert the DNA into the cells. However, this process is not as simple as it
sounds. First, the optimal placement of the injection is in the nucleus of the cell. If the
injection is made into the cytoplasm, there is no cause to believe that the DNA would be
imported into the nucleus. Thus, to get the DNA into the nucleus, injection directly within
the nuclear membrane is the only way of ensuring this. However, this is easier said than
done. In the GFL cells, the nucleus seems to be of various sizes and visibility, depending
on the condition of the cell. In the healthier cells it is more difficult to see the nucleus,
whereas in the more stressed cells the nuclear membrane is easily detectable. When
they are visible, unless the cell is extremely unhealthy, the nucleus seems small, about
20 to 50 um in diameter. Thus, in healthy cells the nucleus is hard to detect, and in cells
where the nucleus is visible, not only is it small, but the cell isn’t as healthy. Even if the
nucleus is visible, the placement of the injection into it is yet another feat: On the
micromanipulator, the lower limit to which the microelectrode is to penetrate is set and
the glass tip placed directly over the spot at which the injection should be placed. Given
that the cell is only visible from the top and the level at which the nucleus is present is
difficult to establish, the microelectrode, when the injection is made, could come above
or below the nucleus, leaving it unaffected. To complicate the matter further, when the
nucleus is definitely penetrated, some nuclear membranes have been seen to stick to
the glass, coming out with it as the microelectrode exits the cell, killing the cell.
In the neuroblastoma and the Aplysia cells, the cell is composed primarily of the
nucleus and it's difficult to miss the nucleus, which explains the more successful
injections into the neuroblastoma cells, but brings to question the non-expression in the
Aplysia neurons. Note also that if the injection set up is coupled with an electrical
