From these results, which it is cannot be determined. Because of this, the partially
stained cells were deemed as unusable as a positive indicator of plasmid expression.
As a final control, injections were done on Aplysia abdominal ganglion, but with
no detection of ß-galactosidase expression. This result was confusing, because the
plasmid was supposed to be functional in the Aplysia. In looking over the procedure
used by Kandel to determine where any procedural deviations may have occurred, it
was tound that in his preparation of the abdominal ganglion, the ganglion was dissected,
then treated with protease IX (Sigma) for 1 hr at 34.5°0. The normal temperature at
which Aplysia cells are cultured is 17°0, so this would subject the cells to extreme
physical stress. Nonetheless, injections were repeated using heat proteased ganglia, but
again, no expression of ß-galactosidase activity was found.
In the proteasing step of the GFL cells, the cells are maintained at room
temperature, and heat was not necessary. To determine whether the 34.5°0 treatment
was a necessary part of the plasmid expression, the heat treatment was attempted with
the GFL cells. But before this, survivorship experiments were run to determine whether
the squid cells would live through the heat shock. In Figure 4A, with the 1.5 and 2 hour
heat shocked cells, a rapid decrease in the cells surviving can be seen. In the 1 hr heat
shocked cells, an initial increase in the cell death can be seen, but after 48 hr this rate
levels off to a survival rate similar to that of the control. In Figure 4B, these two trends can
be seen in cells that were treated in the same 1 hr heat shock. In one plate the cells died
rapidly (open hexagons). In the other plate (open circles), a rapid initial decrease in cell
survival was halted after approximately 48 hrs, when the cell survival rate returned to the
control level. Thus some cells seem to survive heat shock better than others.
With the knowledge that some GFL cells can withstand 1 hr heat shock, this
duration was used in all future heat shock experiments. DNA was injected into cells 1-8
hours after heat shocking, but no ß-galactosidase activity was detected. ß-galactosidase
