solution, the glass and the glass pullers used to make the microelectrodes, and the wash
solutions, but positive results were not obtained.
To determine whether the plasmid received was indeed the pNEX-lacz, a series
of tests were run to verify this: First, a BamH1 restriction digest was done on the plasmid,
which resulted in fragments of appropriate sizes.
Next, the plasmid was transformed into E. coli and grown on agar with X-gal.
Because the bacteria is able to absorb the X-gal through their cell membranes and use
it, the blue colonies that resulted were a positive indication that the bacteria was
producing the ß-galactosidase enzyme. Thus the negative result with the GFL cells was
not due to a fault with the lacZ gene.
To test the integrity of the RSV promoterlenhancer sequence, the plasmid was
injected into mouse sympathetic neuroblastoma cells. Because the Rous sarcoma virus
is a mammalian virus, the neuroblastoma cells were expected to express the plasmid.
Staining these injected cells showed a mixture of very well stained and partially stained
cells. (see Table 1) Dense staining of cells was only seen in the case of DNA-injected
cells. 24 cells similar to the example in Fig. 2 were seen with 950 cells injected. Mock
injections of the cells were done with a solution of 0.05% fast green, 10 mM Tris-HCI
and 100 mM KCl, as a control for possible expression of a ß-galactosidase gene in
physically stressed cells, but no dense staining was evident. Similarly, bathing the cells
in the DNA containing solution or no treatment at all failed to produce dark staining,
which I took to indicate positive ß-galactosidase expression. With this definition, it can be
concluded that the injected neuroblastoma cells expressed the pNEX-lacZ vector. Thus,
the promoter sequence was not faulty.
In addition to the 24 darkly stained cells, there were many faintly stained cells.
These cells had either small, light blue circles of stain about 2-10 um in diameter or a
faint blue stain throughout the cell. This result could be due to background staining from
the technique or it could be due to the cells producing small amounts of the enzyme.
