22 degrees Centigrade).
Imposing different light regimes on a circadian rhythm causes
it to become phase labile (resettable) and entrainable, so that
the persistent rhythm obtains the same period as the light dark
or entraining cycle (Palmer 1974). This means that if it can
be entrained to a light-dark cycle, then there is an underlying
phase response to light (Palmer 1976). In Figure 4, a "normal
light-dark cycle is imposed, and the circadian peaks again are
initially centered at 6 a.m. but are phase advanced on consecutive
days by 15.0 minutes per day. That they are not immediately en¬
trained by this light regime is expected if one keeps in mind
that this "normal" cycle does not mimic the actual external perio¬
dicity in light cycles. Not only is the first light of actual
dawn occuring earlier that 6 a.m., but it is not known what aspect
of this light cycle is actually the entraining agent, i.e., whe¬
ther it is light intensity or the temperature cycle associated
with the light-dark regime that actually synchronize the internal
periodicity. Furthermore, if light intensity is the cue, then
it still remains a question as to whether it is the steady state
that is synchronizing the clock, or the transition from one state
to the other, or even at what light intensity the cue is effective
It may also be possible that if a second clock is operating in the
system, then a second Zeitgeber is at work and only together will
the two give the entire system its exact periodicity.
Similarly, the delayed light-dark cycle (LD 14:10 Delay) shows
circadian peaks that phase delay from 6 a.m. by 27,9 minutes per
day (Figure 5). The persistent circadian rhythm should again
adopt the same period as the entraining light-dark cycle. While
the exact Zeitgeber for the LD cycle may be in question, that
the delayed light regime populations show a phase delay (as
opposed to a phase advance in LD 14:10 "Normal") is significant.
The two systems are compensating independently according to the
differential effect of their corresponding light regimes. As the
one advances and the other delays, they will diverge towards a
point that holds a common period relation to their respective "dawns".
Therefore, by extrapolating along these lines and computing
for the time T until the two activity trends maintain a constant
