Figure and Table Legend
Figure 1-
A bar histogram showing the pattern of activity in a
collembolid population in the laboratory in LL at 22° c.
(Note: In Figure 1 and 2, the values for the counts/hour
are derived from the sum of the events recorded in
three different photorelays placed at various heights
in the collembolid jar.)
Figure 2-
A bar histogram showing the pattern of activity in a
collembolid population in the laboratory in DD at 22° C.
Figure 3-
A bar higtogram showing the pattern of activity in
LL at 18 C. Consecutive days read down the ordinate;
paired days read across the absissa. For example,
May 26-27 shows as one time span, May 27-28, May 28-29,
and so on, are shown vertically below it so that the
activity pattern is shown continuously through the
night.
(Note: In Figures 3, 4 and 5 the values for the number
of counts/hour are those recorded from a single photo-
relay.)
Figure 4-
A bar histogram showing the pattern of activity in a
population exposed to a "normal light-dark cycle of
14 hours of light and 10 hours dark (LD 14:10 "Normal)
such that dawn occurs at 6 a.m.
Figure 5-
A bar histogram showing the pattern of activity in a
population exposed to a delayed light-dark cycle of
14 hours light and 10 hours dark (LD 14:10 Delay)
such that dawn occurs at 2 p.m.
Table of the means (x) calculated for the A and B acti¬
Table 1-
vity peaks, the slope of the best fit line through those
means (a,), and the coefficient of distribution (r2) for
goodness of fit.
LL-1 £ population in LL, experiment (see Figure
DD-1 = population in DD, experiment (see Figure 2
LL-2 = population in LL, experiment (see Figure
LD-Normal = population in LD 14:10 "Normal cycle,
experiment 2 (see Figure 4)
LD-Delay - population in LD 14:10 Dealy cycle, experi
ment 2 (see Figure 5)
Table 2-
Table showing values derived from the F-test for the
difference between two regression coefficients, calcu-
lated to compare whether the amount of phase shift
was significantly different from each other in the
two LL runs in experiment 1 and 2, and in the DD run
as compared to the LL runs.
(Symbols are the same as those used in Table 1; LL-2a
and LL-2b refer to the phase shifts for the first four
days and the second four days respectively of the
LL run in experiment 2.)
