Results and Discussion
When the two populations of the first experiment are exposed
to constant conditions, one in constant light and one in constant
dark, free-running activity is generated (Figures 1 and 2) where
the populations are uncoupled from other external rhythms such as
the light-dark cycle of the solar day, tidal patterns and temper-
ature periodicities.
The major trend showing in consecutive days (May 9-12) is the
6 a.m. peak of hopping activity in both LL and DD populations,
corresponding with the major period of activity of field popula-
tions. Both laboratory groups also show high counts of events
immediately after the animals were introduced to their separate
containers and again during the late evening. This bimodal peak
on the first day appears in all other runs as well, regardless of
the imposed light conditions. The second peak of this bimodal
pattern always occurs iten hours after the experiment was started.
Beneath the major activity peaks is a star denoting its mean,
calculated by taking a visual estimate of the span of the peak,
and figuring a mean for grouped data on the values of recorded
jumping events. (Table 1). Connecting the stars is a broad line
representing a subjective estimate of the day-to-day trend in
timing of these bursts of activity. A least squares linear re-
gressions test (Box 14.1, Sokal and Rohlf, 1969) was then used
to find the slope of the "best fit" line through these means.
The LL population in the second experiment has an activity
pattern similar to that in the first experiment, as shown by com¬
parison of Figure 1 and 2 with Figure 3. The free-run period in
Figure 3, however, has a discontinuity between May 30 and May 31,
the cause of which is unknown. Any of several exogenous distur-
bances (power failure, disturbing the Formatemp bath, etc.) could
have disrupted the trend in the daily shift; likewise, endogenous
factors might be at work, such as the crossing of two possible
synchronizing agents, high tide and dawn, prior to the phase shift
on May 31.
Analysis of the means for each of the activity peaks in con-
