relationship to their respective dawns, it is found that by June
6, the normal cycle should arise and maintain its periodicity
at 3:33 a.m., 2 hours and 27 minutes (2.45 hours) before its dawn
and the peak of activity in the delayed cycle population should
arrive 2 hours and 36 minutes (2.60 hours) prior to the delayed
sunrise (2 p.m.) at 11:24 a.m. (See Table 3). Analysis by the
F-test for difference between two regression coefficients can
again be calculated to determine if the activity peaks after June
6 are actually entrained to a 24-hour period (Box 14.8, Sokal and
Rohlf, 1969). This test shows that the slope and the period for
the days June 6-Junelo is significantly different from the slope
for the previous days May 26-June 2, and yet not significantly
different from the perpendicular, which would be the equivalent
of a 24-hour periodicity, and therefore, the entrained state.
It is also interesting to note the difference between the
timings of these activity peaks in the lab and under field con-
ditions. In the field, the peak activity lasts an hour or less
(DeLapa, 1978), with virtually no jumping outside of this time
span, whereas the laboratory populations show activity periods
of several hours, even during the initial days of the experiment.
Here, the width of the peak holds constant, suggesting that the
clock mechanism is a precise one and is not appreciably altered
by laboratory conditions. The synchrony among field populations
might be controlled not only by exogenous agents (Zeitgeber) but
also absolute limits for the activity periods may be delineated
by overriding environmental cues. That there are additional li-
miting factors that lock the rhythms onto such discrete times
in the field, is also suggested by the condensed distribution of
animal activity in the laboratory. The activity distribution in
the lab follows a leptokurtic distribution (g, from Box 6.2, S.E.
of go from Box 7.1agø significant at p«.05 withT-test of Box 7.4,
Sokal and Rohlf, 1969), meaningthat the jumping of individuals
is clumped around the mean, more so than would be expected in a
random distribution. This again indicates a high degree of pre-
cision in the clock mechanism; individuals may mutually entrain
one another, or else their clocks are all very highly synchronized
onto the same periodicity.
Furthermore, that the persistent period is so close to 24 hours,
reinforces the notion that the oscillator in question is very strictly
