defined. Even though the internal periodicity is more difficult
to entrain if it is very close to 24 hours, collembolids would
gain the advantage of excellent timing of their activity, sug
gested in the field to be am important survival benefit.
Both of these light cycle regimes show a second activity
peak (hereinafter referred to as the B peak as opposed to the
circadian A peak) arising close to 1800 on the second and third
days (May 26 and 27) of these experiments, progressively increas¬
ing in amplitude and phase delaying through the day. These peaks
have been shown to be statistically distinct from the daytime peaks
by the Student's T-test for grouped data (Sokal and Rohlf, 1969).
When the amount of daily phase shift for the A and B peaks
is compared for the two light regimes LD 14:10 "Normal" and LD 14:10
Delay, it can be seen that a constant difference between the period
of the A and B oscillations is maintained, independent of the im¬
posed light-dark cycles. Thus, in the normal LD cycle, the A
peaks occur 15.0 minutes earlier each day and the B peaks, 26.4
minutes later, so that the two peaks are converging at the rate
of the sum of these two values, or 39.40 minutes per day. Simi¬
larly, in the delayed LD cycle, when the B peak delays 67.2 minutes
per day, the A peak follows it with a delay of 27.9 minutes. The
difference between the two phase shifts is 39.30 minutes, indi¬
cating that the interval between the two peaks is decreasing at
a nearly identical rate to that found in the "normal" light cycle.
If the circadian (A) peaks lock onto an exact 24-hour perio¬
dicity, such as they would when entrained to the given light-dark
cycle, the B peaks will have an average period of 24 hours and
39.35 minutes, a period quite close to the tidal period of 24
hours and 51 minutes. These two values are within 1.61% of each
other indicating that the suggestion that the B component is actu-
ally an expression of a tidal clock is a reasonable one.
The B component also maintains a constant position in the
tidal cycle. In both the "normal" and delayed light regime ex¬
periments, these activity highs correspond to a tidal height of
3.5 to 5.0 feet, suggesting that these bursts of activity may
be the expression of a tidal rhythm. In the field, this tidal
range would correspond to the condition wherh station 18, the
collection site of these particular animals, would be just unco¬
