Materials and Methods
Methods of determining the relative numbers of collembolids
active on the beach at different hours of the day were devised
in conjunction with studies made by DeLapa. (see DeLapa, 1978).
For laboratory investigations, the collembolids were col-
lected from the West beach at Mussel Point in Pacific Grove,
California from May to June 1978. Test populations were esta-
blished in Freezette airtight plastic freezer jars, with a 2-inch
layer of fresh, sifted sand at the bottom. The sand was collected
from a height on the beach approximately 4 feet above mean lower
low water. For each new experiment, a fresh population of col-
lembolids was introduced to each jar by ladling out a monolayer
of insects floating on water of uniform surface area, and esti-
mated to contain from 2000 to 3000 individuals.
Populations exposed to constant darkness were placed in jars
painted on the outside with flat black paint, while those experi-
encing either constant light or a controlled light-dark cycle
had only the bottom and walls of the jar painted with the lid
left as a translucent plastic. In the first experiment, a flour-
escent bulb was used for illumination, whereas small 5 watt bulbs
were employed in the second experiment, one mounted above each
jar. An aluminum foil shell was then fitted over the top and
sides of the containers, so that each could experience its own
light-dark regime but be independent of neighboring jars. Each
light was turned off and on by an Intermatic timer set to a
given light cycle. The jars were then placed in a Formatemp con¬
stant temperature bath, which itself was mounted on thick foam
to reduce vibrations from disturbances in the room.
In the first set of experiments, the bath was kept at 17
degrees Centigrade, maintaining an air temperature of 22 degrees
monitored inside one of the plastic jars by a thermister connected
to a Rustrack millameter. In the second set of experiments, a
bath temperature of 13 degrees Centigrade was selected, and the
air temperatures in the jars held a constant 15 degrees when the
overhead light was off, and 18 degrees when it was on. Since
