vered by the tide.
Furthermore, that the A and B peaks maintain a constant dif-
ference between their respective phase shifts regardless of the
light-dark cycle suggests that the B peak has its own oscillation
and the two oscillations (daily and tidal) are mutually entrained.
It remains, however, that the B periodicity is in fact being greatly
affected by the A system, without being entrainable by light cycles.
If this is indeed a separate tidal periodicity, light independent,
but phase-locked to the A peaks, it would follow that in the ab-
sence of external Zeitgeber, such as we find in persistent rhythms,
the B peaks would free-run, except for being phase-shifted rela-
tive to A. Then, if an appropriate tide-related cue were given,
they would shift into a new phase relationship with A, so that
the two oscillators would again be mutually entrained and their
activity peaks more precisely timed. In this regard, it is inter-
esting to note that the leptokurtic distribution discussed earlier
may very well be a result of the coupling and mutual entrainment
of the two clocks, thus increasing the temporal precision of jumping
activity.
The investigations considered above suggest a number of con¬
timuing and additional studies. First, asking whether it is light
intensity or the change in temperature associated with light cycles
that cues the clock onto the external periodicity, control studies
should be conducted, isolating each of these variables. Then the
effect of different temperatures on free-running clocks should be
investigated, to see if there is a range of temperature sensitivities
of the clock mechanism. Also, another constant condition popula¬
tion should be established not only as a control, but to get better
resolution of the LL patterns in the present study. If the B peaks
in the LD cycles eventually cross below the circadian peaks and
maintain a constant phase relationship, their independence from
solar-day rhythms will be confirmed and when this particular pat-
tern of light and tidal cyclese is again encountered in the external
world, it will be interesting to resolve how it affects the ampli-
tude of these supposed tidal peaks, and whether the relative po-
sition of the A and B peaks affects the trend in increasing the
