Introduction
Biological clocks have been described in a number of insect
orders (Saunders, 1976) and are generally recognized as prominent
in living systems. The literature on biological clocks is exten-
sive, for the large part treating the phenomenon of circadian
oscillators. Other oscillators,b
such as tidal clocks,
are less well documented, and descriptions of how clocks inter-
act in a single system are even fewer. For example, one study
of the coupling of endogenous rhythms is that work done on the
beach amphipod, Orchestroidea corniculata (McGinnis, 1972, Osbeck,
1970); although much has been found in these studies, extensive
data has been difficult to collect, and generalizations about clock
interactions are difficult to make.
In this paper, I describe an investigation conducted at Hop-
kins Marine Station in the Spring of 1978, on the intertidal
collembolid Archisotoma besselsi. Experiments were designed to
document the existence of an endogenous clock, and furthermore,
to quantify the nature of the clock system. This latter work
is still in progress; therefore, many of the questions posed in
this paper will be answered after new data has been analyzed.
Collembolids, more commonly known as springtails, are excel-
lent subjects for the study of biological clocks. They possess
a number of qualities that make the analysis of their oscillator
system reliable, quantifiable and easily reproduced. Collembolids
are, first of all, among the most abundant of insects (Maynard,
1951), and in a single location they number in the millions. That
they are available in enormous numbers allows the investigator
to generate large amounts of data, without fear of depleting his
source of animals. Also, by virtue of their minute size, labora-
tory populations can consist of several thousand individuals; as
sample size increases, so does the resolution of behavioral trends.
Secondly, for the study of temporal patterns in endogenous rhyth-
micity, it is important that there be a discrete activity that
changes dramatically with time and which can be quantified mechani-
cally or electronically to cut observational bias to a minimum;
collembolids show very distinct peaks and lulls in their jumping
