by dividing the number of dead squid collected by the number alive on the previous
day. The number of live squid on day 1 was determined at the end of the study by
summing the daily death tolls. Group 2 began with 1688 squid and Group 3 with
1031
Feeding
Zooplankton used for feeding was obtained daily when possible (see below)
from Monterey Bay, either by tows or by a near-shore plankton pump. Many
different species made up these samples, but the prey most often pursued by the
squid was the small, fast-moving copepod Arcatia tonsa. Larger calenoid copepods
were sometimes also present. The plankton was sieved and rinsed with fresh
seawater before it was fed to the squid. Little attempt was made to regulate or
measure the daily amount provided, because availability of samples was sometimes
erratic and limited because of weather conditions. Generally a fairly high plankton
density was maintained in the tanks, but occasionally one feeding had to last for 2 or
even 3 days. Prey items were present at all times, however. During the last week of
feeding (days 35-43) large numbers of copepods were available and feeding was at a
consistently high density
Artemia (brine shrimp nauplii) were cultured in the lab and were thus
constantly available. Äfter hatching, they were enriched by a period of feeding on
cultured phytoplankton to increase their nutritional value. 20-30 ml of high density
Artemia was given in each daily feeding; Artemia were always abundant in the
rearing tanks.
All squid were fed each morning. Observations were always made less thar
two hours later, and the majority occured immediately after feeding. Before evening
observations, squid on a plankton diet were given a second feeding to increase prey
density.
Behavioral Observations of Feeding Attacks
As a first gauge of the level of feeding activity, the number of attacks observed
per minute during each observation period was recorded. These periods were
usually 30 minutes long, varying between 25 and 50 minutes. Squid were sampled
by "dividing" the tank into four observational parts and visually scanning a selected
volume until an animal was observed orienting towards a prey item or positioning
itself for an attack. This individual was then followed for as long as it continued to
engage in attack behavior (see below and Fig. 4) in order to record the number and
