like control over the giant axon system is necessary for the successful capture of fast
moving prey organisms. Squid were raised on both fast- and slow-moving prey in
order to address the questions: Can any type of feeding activity stimulate
development of effective prey capture technique or does prey type determine the
style of attack behavior? Can squid accustomed only to slow-moving prey adapt
their capture technique to fast prey? Is there an optimum time period for such
modifications to occur?
METHODS
Culture Conditions
Eggs of Loligo opalescens were obtained by divers in April-May 1993 in
Monterey Bay. The eggs were held in flow-through (50 micron filtering) natural
seawater tanks at ambient temperature (-15 C) in the Monterey Bay Aquarium and
Hopkins Marine Station until hatching, after which they were divided into the
experimental groups described in this paper. Most eggs were hatched in their own
rearing tank to minimize handling damage, but some Group 3 hatchlings were
transferred by beaker. The egg masses hatched over a period of 4 days before they
were removed, and the major hatch-out occurred on day 3 of this period which is
hereafter defined as culture "Day 1".
The two main experimental groups (Groups 2 and 3) were kept in black,
conical tanks with a capacity of 320 liters (1 meter diameter). Water level was
maintained by a Hartford Loop system. The perforated central drainpipe was
covered with pleated paper filters (50 micron) to avoid any spots of high velocity of
the effluent water leaving the tank. These filters were in turn covered with a nylon
stocking. Both stocking and filters were cleaned twice per week by scrubbing and
soaking in bleach solution. Detritus and uneaten food were dipped off the water
daily with a small net. The tanks were exposed to natural light during the day but
were otherwise covered. When feeding or behavioral observations took place in the
evening, a 60 watt incandescent bulb was held over the tank.
Mortality and Survival
Each morning the bottom and sides of all tanks were cleaned using a siphon
and the dead and moribund squid recovered were transferred to a separate container
to be counted and examined. Daily mortality was calculated as a running percentage
