great a distance, the squid making a short stabbing movement with open tentacles.
Although this type of attack is effective with Artemia, it inevitably failed with
copepods, because these organisms would respond with their own extremely rapid
escape response. In most instances, the squid then reacted to the darting copepod
with a rapid backwards escape jet, and the prey capture encounter would end in a
missed attack and failure.
Filled symbols in Figure 8A display the high frequency of Group 2 missed
attacks on copepods that were followed by such inappropriate escape jets (over the
first 9 days of their exposure to plankton). Plotted values are the percentage of the
total number of attacks observed on each day (numbers indicated in Fig. 8A). Figure
8B illustrates the complementary data for unsuccessful attacks that were no
followed by escape jets, that is the squid either made another attack attempt or
remained stationary. For Group 2 squid, these values are low (filled symbols).
Data plotted as open symbols in Figs. 8A, B reveal that Group 3 squid, which
had been previously exposed to plankton for 23 days, made far fewer attacks
followed by escape jets during the period of days 35-43 in culture and followed
through more often with multiple attacks on the same copepod (maximum 60).
Although the day 35-43 performance of the Group 3 squid was better than that
of Group 2 in suppressing inappropriate escape jets, their behavior after their initial
exposure to copepods on day 9 was much like that of Group 2. Attack-related escape
jets commonly occurred at this time, both in response to movement of the prey and
following attack jets whether or not contact with the prey was made (data not
illustrated). Although careful analysis of Group 3 failures was not made during this
period, it was obvious that significant improvement had occurred by day 34 when
the 10 day comparison with Group 2 was initiated.
DISCUSSION
Numerous rearing experiments on Loligo opalescens (Hanlon, 1979; Hurley
1976; Yang et al., 1983, 1986; personal unpublished observations) have demonstrated
the squids' ability to capture copepods immediately after hatching. Pursuit and
attack seem to be triggered by the copepods' fast, jerky movements, which make
them an attractive prey item compared to other planktonic organisms.
In contrast, when the hatchlings in this study were exposed only to Artemia
at birth, they did not respond for several days. On the day they began feeding, they
too were capable of successful captures, but their feeding attacks were lethargic and
10
