behavior was classified as indicated in Fig. 4. There are several steps in a successful
prey capture sequence, and at each step one or more alternative behaviors result in
an unsuccessful attack, i.e. the prey item is not captured.
An attack begins as "orientation" when the squid positions itself so that its
arms point straight at the prey item. The squid then swims slowly forward, directly
towards the prey, maneuvering close enough to attack. At this point, the pursuing
squid may actively swim off in another direction, or simply drift away, apparently
losing interest in the prey. In the results to be described, these outcomes were
defined as "incomplete" attacks. Squid prepared for attack sometimes also
effectively abort the attempt by making a rapid backwards escape jet that is
apparently stimulated by sudden movement of the prey item. Such escape behavior
was commonly seen in squid with the fast-moving planktonic prey, whereas
animals fed on Artemia most often abandoned the pursuit.
When a squid does make a committed attack, it approaches the prey with
arms and tentacles pointed together in front of the body. This leads directly into a
final attack jet during which the arms open to seize the prey. Sometimes the attack
jet is improperly aimed, and the squid misses the prey entirely. Often a squid
contacts the prey during the attack jet but then immediately gives a strong
backwards jet before the arms can be closed, a necessary step in subduing the prey
Both of these patterns were defined as a "missed" attack.
Squid would sometimes successfully execute a well-aimed attack jet, hit the
prey, and enclose it in the arms only to then suddenly release it, either swimming
away or making a backwards escape jet. These unsuccessful attacks were labeled
"releases." An attack was considered successful if the squid subdued the prey in its
arms and held onto it while jetting backwards. The squid then proceeded to eat the
prey during normal slow swimming or while simply drifting.
Only these outcomes were counted as "eaten" attacks. Although the strong
backwards jet after prey capture is very common, it is not always executed. As this
behavior quickly removes both squid and prey from the capture site, it may have
adaptive value as a means of avoiding larger predators that might be attracted to the
struggle, or other hatchling squid which commonly engage in fighting and prey¬
stealing (unpublished observations).
In summary, feeding attacks involve a complex sequence of behaviors,
including backwards and forward jets which require precise control and direction.
Inappropriate escape jets (marked by * in Fig. 4) must be suppressed in the early
stages of the sequence and forward jets must be properly timed and directed. A
