Both published and unpublished work by Gilly et al. support this hypothesis
(Gilly, Hopkins and Mackie, 1991; Gilly, 1992-3, unpublished). Gilly et al.'s
neurological and behavioral experiments on restrained Loligo and Sepioteuthis
hatchlings found that many Sepioteuthis, which had been actively feeding and
growing post-hatching, displayed the adult-like pattern of giant axon use in delayed
escape response behavior. Loligo, unfed during these experiments, demonstrated
fast-start escapes typical of embryonic animals. Although unknown developmental
differences between the two species could underlie this disparity, the different
feeding experiences of the two groups might have been responsible for Sepioteuthis
fürther progression. More recent work by Gilly on Loligo hatchlings found that a
majority of fed individuals gave adult-like delayed escape responses to direct
electrical stimulation whereas most unfed hatchlings reacted in the embryonic
manner (Gilly, 1993, unpublished).
In this study, a large group of healthy animals were maintained in
approximately "unfed" conditions for 33 days: that is, they were given no food that
required active pursuit and capture. The squid presumably had no need to utilize an
adult-like pattern of maximum-efficiency giant axon recruitment in order to eat and
survive. They gave no behavioral indication of having adopted such a patterr
either during exposure to slow-moving prey or after fast-moving copepods were
introduced on day 34. Many animals exhibited fast, powerful escape behavior during
encounters with the copepods. These could be the fast-start, giant axon-driven
escape jets characteristic of embryonic Loligo or young, unfed hatchlings (see Gilly et
al., 1991).
When copepods were first substituted for Artemia, the numerous attacks that
Groups 2 and Group 3 made on the new prey may have represented attempts to
refine the timing of powerful forward jets and suppress premature backward escape
jets while feeding. The discovery that animals 10 days old had some difficulty
perfecting this behavior, and that 33-day old squid failed entirely, suggests that
development of adult-like giant axon control requires active stimulation during a
very short critical period of time.
It is unlikely that attacks among the squid themselves contribute to the
establishment of sophisticated giant axon control. Even under crowded rearing
conditions, very few fights were observed between squid compared with the total
number of feeding attacks made. Active feeding experience appears to be the crucial
means of early neurological stimulation. To promote effective development of the
adult nervous system without sacrificing the high survival rates achieved by
