Figure 1 shows the daily mortality rate for Group 2 hatchlings over the entire
experiment, and Fig. 2 illustrates analogous data for Group 3. In both cases there are
two main "peaks" of mortality over the 45 day period. This survival pattern has
been routinely found in attempts to culture Loligo (Hurley, 1979, Hanlon et al, 1980,
1982). The first peak typically occurs during the first 5-10 days post-hatching (days 8-9
in Groups 2 and 3; see Figs. 1,2) and reflects the hatchlings' difficulty in making the
transition from living on internal yolk reserves to capturing live prey. Once this
transition is made, the surviving squid display much lower mortality until a period
around days 40-60. This second major peak is generally attributed to accumulated
skin abrasions, fin damage, bacterial infection and possibly malnutrition.
Rate of Attack on Different Prey Types
Figure 3 compares the number of attacks per minute that squid in Groups 2
and 3 made on slow- and fast-moving prey introduced at different times in culture.
Group 2 was exposed only to Artemia from day 1, but no attacks were observed until
day 6 (Fig. 3B) At this time, the attack rate jumped to 1.9 per minute and continued
to fluctuate around this value for the next 28 days. As shown in Fig. 3A, this low
attack rate persisted for several days after Group 2 was switched to planktonic prey
on day 34, but the attack rate then suddenly escalated to 4.5 per minute on day 37
The same pattern was found when Group 3 was switched to plankton on day 10 (Fig.
3A). Such a sharp rise in attack rate presumably reflects the squids' increasing
recognition of copepods as desirable prey.
Äfter this early peak, the number of attacks made per minute by both Groups
2 and 3 began to decline, accompanied by heavy mortality in both groups. Group 2's
attack rate decreased steadily until there were only two survivors at the end of the 10
day period (day 44). Although the Group 3 attack rate also fell drastically until day 6
of plankton exposure, it then increased again to a high level by day 10 of the
experiment (Fig. 3A). These squid continued to display high attack rates of 4-5 per
minute throughout the next 20 days of observation (data not illustrated), at the end
of which 22 squid survived.
Definition of the Feeding Attack Sequence
It thus appears that exposure to planktonic prey either early (Group 3) or late
(Group 2) after hatching stimulates initial interest in the new faster-moving prey. It
is important to note, however, that the number of attacks per minute does not
indicate a squid's ability to capture prey. To take this disparity into account, attack
