outcome of each attack episode. When the squid captured or abandoned its prey
another squid was chosen and the observation process repeated. If no animals in
the volume under scrutiny initiated an attack within 2-3 minutes, observations
shifted to another section of the tank. Because water in the tank slowly circulated,
many of the squid revolved with it, enabling a better picture of group activity
Obviously, when very high numbers of attacks or attacks involving multiple squid
occurred, the method of observation and recording employed could not keep pace
with the activity level. During such high activity periods, attack rates were
underestimated.
In order to quantitate feeding attack outcomes, a scheme for a typical attack
sequence was defined based on detailed original observation in conjunction with
previous work on Loligo opalescens (Hurley, 1979) and other species (Messenger
1968; LaRoe, 1970). This behavioral sequence includes both successful and
unsuccessful behaviors and is discussed below in conjunction with Fig. 4. All attack
outcomes reported in this paper were classified according to this plan.
On any given day, the experimental groups of squid were fed and observed
consecutively. There was no obvious difference in the rate of feeding after morning
versus evening feedings, and both sets of data were pooled into a set for that day. To
compensate for unavoidable variation in prey density and duration of observation
from day to day, the various outcomes of each group's feeding attacks were
calculated as fractions of the total number of attacks observed that day for the group.
RESULTS
Mortality and Survival With Different Prey
Each of the two experimental groups of squid hatchlings were provided with
different prey types at different stages after birth and closely observed during feeding
behavior. Two questions of interest are whether prey capture behavior varies with
prey type and whether previous feeding experience affects a squid's ability to master
a new type of prey item. Group 2 squid were fed slow-moving Artemia nauplii
from culture days 1-33, and on day 34 were introduced to wild plankton and fed on
this until the end of the study (day 45). Group 3 was given Artemia over days 1-9
and switched to plankton on day 10. They fed exclusively on planktonic prey
(mostly copepods) thereafter, except on days 31-33 when plankton was unavailable
and Artemia was substituted.
