squid frequently abandoned their prey altogether when it did not move. Hanlon
(1986) reports similar results: his group "curtailed the feeding of brine shrimp since
these were found to be unattractive to the hatchlings." Nevertheless, if an attack on
Artemia was completed, it usually succeeded, and survival on this prey was good
(see Fig. 1).
Group 3 squid, introduced to copepods on day 10, made very few successful
captures on the first days of feeding despite energetic pursuit. As exposure
continued, they modified their attack behavior noticeably, making longer, well¬
timed attack jets and increasingly suppressing premature escape responses. The
proportion of attacks that ended in prey consumption was still much lower on
plankton than on Artemia. However, although mortality for this group was higher
than that for Artemia-raised squid (compare Figs. 1 and 2), the daily death rate also
stabilized after an early peak. More squid were obviously capturing enough food to
survive, using an attack strategy very different from the method by which they had
caught Artemia.
Group 2 was not exposed to copepods until day 34 of the study. When active
attack began, the success rate was extremely low for two reasons. First, escape
responses to movements by the copepods hindered many squids' approach to the
prey. Second, most squid within striking distance of a copepod would attack as if it
were Artemia. Attack jets were typically too short, too slow and incorrectly timed,
often cut short by a backward jet. As Group 2 did not alter this behavior sufficiently
to catch enough food and avoid starvation, this study suggests that Loligo's ability to
capture fast-moving prey depends on its exposure to this prey early in the life cycle
After the change in prey on day 34, the entire group died so quickly (see Fig. 1) that
can not attribute the majority of deaths to factors such as skin abrasion or infection.
It is reasonable to hypothesize that young squid with slow-moving prey do
not need to use their giant axon system in an adult-like manner during prey
capture. Animals pursuing fast-moving copepods would presumably benefit greatly
from the ability to critically time giant axon pulses to boost attack jets initiated by
small motor neurons, in the normal adult pattern (Otis and Gilly, 1990). Close
control over giant axon excitation would also enable the squid to delay powerful
backwards jets until it had securely captured the prey. However, a typical attack on
Artemia does not require precise timing of fast jets or suppression of premature
escape responses to the prey. Establishment and development of adult-like giant
axon control may require the active stimulation of vigorous prey pursuit.
