the third day of exposure the frequency of attacks rose sharply (See Fig. 3A). Like
Group 2, the Group 3 squid also showed a high level of missed attacks, a reduced
frequency of incomplete attacks, and a low percentage of successful captures for the
next few days. From day 17 onward, the surviving squid showed a high attack rate
coupled with a low success rate, although the Group 3 squid reached higher success
ates and survived well up to day 42.
During the Group 3 trial, plankton were unavailable for 3 days, and Artemia
were substituted. During this period (days 31-33, open bars in Fig. 8), there was a
noticeable change in feeding behavior.
The frequency of incomplete attacks
temporarily increased, the level of missed attacks simultaneously fell, and the
success rate was higher.
Analysis of Errors in Prey Capture: Inappropriate Escape Jets
Although the two groups of squid in this study were all exposed to the same
fast-moving prey, their behavior during attacks was significantly different,
suggesting that the animals' age and previous feeding experience may affect their
ability to capture an unfamiliar fast-moving prey item. When naive squid are
provided with plantktonic organisms such as copepods right after birth, they can
successfully capture them with rapid attack jets, sometimes even on the first day of
exposure (Hurley, 1976; Yang et al, 1983, 1986; unpublished observations). In
contrast, the squid in both Groups 2 and 3 that were given Artemia nauplii after
birth did not initiate any feeding for several days. When feeding behavior did
commence, little rapid movement was involved on the part of either squid or prey
The squid moved slowly into position and made a short jabbing attack with open
tentacles in an attempt to grasp the prey and pull it into the mouth. Squid seldom
made backwards escape jets from Artemia following a failed attack, and a second or
third attempt was usually successful.
When Group 2 squid were confronted with copepods on day 34, they
essentially could not catch these fast, jerky animals. On days 34-36 very few attacks
were made and these consisted of several futile attempts (maximum 6). On days 37-
42, after longer exposure to copepods, the squids’ efforts at pursuit increased
considerably, and one individual made 25 fruitless attacks on the same copepod.
The method of attack in these cases was clearly inappropriate for this type of
prey. The squid could not approach the copepods very closely, because any
movement by the prey would lead to a backwards escape jet by the squid (as
discussed in conjunction with Fig. 4). Very often an attack was initiated from too
