central hypothesis of this paper is the idea that both inhibition of the escape
response and its critically timed usage are essential for maximum-efficency capture
of fast-moving prey.
Analysis of Feeding Attack Outcomes
Squid provided with fast zooplankton or with slow Artemia nauplii followed
the same basic plan of attack as that described above, but failed in different ways to
capture prey. Daily percentages of attacks defined as incomplete, missed, released
and eaten are presented in Figs. 6-8.
Figure 6 shows the outcomes of feeding attacks made by Group 2 on Artemia
over the first 21 days in culture. No feeding attempts were observed until day 6.
When hatchlings finally initiated attacks, they were capable of successfully
progressing through the capture sequence on the first day of feeding. Roughly a
third of all attacks made on day 6 were successful, and the success level remained
around 20% for the rest of the 21-day observation period. The percentage of missed
attacks was similar during this time, but the level of incomplete attacks was quite a
bit higher, generally over 40%.
Thus, slow-moving Artemia apparently did not often stimulate hatchling
squid to a degree that led to complete attacks, but if the squid did attack they had a
good rate of success. Figure 7 shows how these patterns changed upon introducing
Group 2 to plankton on day 34 in culture. For the first 3 days (34-36), the majority of
squid continued to feed on residual Artemia and seemed to ignore the copepods as
possible food. Relatively few squid even oriented towards the new type of prey and
only 4 copepods were seen to be captured and eaten during these 3 days.
By the fourth day of plankton exposure, the Artemia had been depleted, and
the frequency of attacks on copepods rose rapidly (See Fig. 3A). Many squid began
active pursuit and attack, and the level of incomplete attacks fell to less than 10%
during days 37-42. However, the percentage of missed attacks during this period was
extremely high (-90%). Very few animals initially made contact with their prey, and
by days 40-43 fewer than 5% of attacks ended in successful capture. By day 44 all the
Group 2 squid had died, presumably of starvation and exhaustion from continual
fruitless pursuit and attack.
Figure 8 shows results over the entire 33 day period of Group 3 exposure to
planktonic prey after 9 days on Artemia. The feeding pattern immediately after
exposure to copepods was similar to that of Group 2. There was a two day period of
apparently low interest, characterized by a high percentage of incomplete attacks. On
