INTRODUCTION
Squid are active predators that from birth depend on high-speed, jet-propelled
attacks to capture their prey. Precise aiming and timing of these jets are probably
necessary for maximum efficiency, since the bulk of a young squid's prey consists of
fast-moving organisms such as copepods and larval fish. Another high-speed, jet-
propelled behavior that requires precise control is the escape response. As these
typically backwards-directed escape jets are comparable in thrust to the forward-
directed jets made during prey attacks (Packard, 1969), it is reasonable to assume that
the same neuromuscular systems underlie both behaviors and that their ontogeny
could be linked.
The giant axons of loliginid squid are a vital link in the motor system
producing escape jetting, a pathway first described in detail by Young (1938). Recent
in vivo recordings (Otis and Gilly, 1990) have shown that although strong escape
jets can be generated by an "ordinary" small motor axon system (Wilson, 1960)
acting alone, the most powerful escape responses are elicited by delayed activation of
the giant axon system in coordination with bursts of activity in the small motor
fibers. Optimal performance thus requires careful control of the timing of giant
axon excitation relative to non-giant motor activity.
It is not yet clear precisely when after birth this dual motor control in escape
response behavior emerges, or what factors influence its development. Gilly,
Hopkins and Mackie (1991) found that in embryonic and newly hatched squid,
short-latency firing of the giant axons preceded excitation of any small motor
neurons in escape responses. This pattern is thus the reverse of the delayed firing
pattern found in adult squid. These workers also discovered that the delayed
recruitment pattern of the giant axon begins to appear shortly after birth. More
recent experiments (Gilly, in preparation) have revealed that by 10 days post¬
hatching, most animals that had been feeding on plankton (mostly copepods
routinely employed delayed, adult-like recruitment of the giant axons. Animals
that were not provided with this prey, however, remained at a developmental stage
more closely resembling the embryonic stage characterized by short-latency
activation of the giant axon. A developmental connection thus appears to exist
between the ontogeny of the escape response and the nutritional state or prey
capture activity of hatchling squid.
This study explores this possible connection through behavioral observations
of squid hatchlings' prey capture behavior, guided by the hypothesis that tight, adult-
