INTRODUCTION.
Curiosity about how the human brain governs the complexity of human
behavior has led many a scientist into the neurobiology field. Unfortunately,
the human brain is far too complicated for studies at the current level of
underständing. Invertebrate ganglia, with their significantly fewer neurons
and simpler structure, have provided a template for initial study with the
hope that relationships can be found between these animals and humans.
A great deal of time has been spent on trying to find the neural pathways
responsible for behavior and learning in invertebrates. In each study, a
behavioral paradigm is required in order to relate neurological findings to the
whole animal. A good example of the study of neuroethology, the combination
of behavior and its neurophysiological basis, is one of Alan Gelperin's
experiments on the terrestrial slug Limax maximus. The first part of his
study involved behavioral experiments to train the slug to respond positively
or negatively to certain food odors through associative learning. He then
examined recordings from lip-brain preparations of the slug to try and
understand the neurophysiological basis of training (Gelperin, 1983).
Marine mollusks have also been used for neuroethological studies. The
behavioral hierarchy of Pleurobranchaea californica a carnivorous mollusk,
has been described by Davis et.al. (1974), with the intent that an underlying
neurophysiological explanation could follow. The technique for deriving this
hierarchy involved limiting stimuli to the slug during non-experimental
periods, and then testing dominance between two initiated behaviors at a
time. Arepresentative model was interpreted from the results.
Because of the sensory deprivation involved in such a study, a general
idea of natural or "everyday" behavior of the animal cannot be interpreted
from a hierarchy. Äfter attempting a dominance study on the nudibranch
Melibe leonina  found that constant ly limiting the stimulus to the animal
would be difficult and actually detract from the animal's natural responses.
