reference to its designer. I have chosen to avoid the term "Markov" due to its
connotative requirement of stationarity in the data. Stationarity is the
property that behavior or behavioral sequences do not change when comparing
different time periods. Previous studies that claimed to have found
Markovian analyses of animal behavior have been criticized on their lack of
stationarity (Bekoff, 1977). In my research, I assumed that stationarity was
irrelevant: first, because ! could not determine a proper time interval in
which to assume stationarity in ten weeks; second, because 1 pooled the
behavior of all animals in each set, effectively neutralizing any substantial
motivational changes that would be considered non-stationary
The equation for testing a one-step transition model (pg. 5) was taken
from an analysis on hermit crab agonistic behavior that was assumed to be
non-stationary (Oden, 1977). Using this equation, the frequency of two-step
transitions (or 3-behavior sequences) was estimated. Comparing the
matrices of predicted and observed occurrences of each sequence yields
chi-square values that for thirty-six degrees of freedom show some
significant differences. Fortunately, there are several problems with the
chi-square as a statistical test in this case. First, the data set in this study
is co-variant, leading to an unclear decrease in the degrees of freedom. Also,
large six-by-six matrices result in some cells with low expected counts.
This will tend to overinflate the chi-square statistic (Steinberg, 1977).
Assuming that the chi-square values are overinf lated, the amazing
similarities between the predicted and observed sequence frequencies become
apparent. This similarity demonstrates that spontaneous behavior sequences
in Melibe are stochastic. An animal's transition between its present state
and the next future state, within my imposed interval of fifteen minutes,
depends only on its present state and not on any previous states. This gives
interesting insights into the neurophysiological bases of Me/ibe behavior. It
is probable that memory is limited and that circuits that control behavioral
