DISCUSSION:
Iwo main conclusions can be drawn from the results of this research.
One entails the relationship of physical characteristics to the individual
animal's behavior and the other is the relationship among different behaviors.
This research also reforms some previously published observations about
Melibe behavior in general (Ageska, 1972).
Analysis shows that larger animals will spend more time feeding and
more time within the "active" feeding loop. Further experimentation could
show how a larger animal may have a greater concentration of a "feeding
hormone, or that certain neural pathways are stronger that control feeding.
Individual animals will tend to remain in the behaviors F, OH, AL, and RST for
longer than one fifteen minute interval, yet transitions in and out of roaming
behaviors (R/AL, R/OH) are much faster. There may be different bases for the
different types of behavior, one "static" and one "transitionary", which can be
detected through electrophysiological examination.
The importance to the animal of choosing between behavior loops is very
interesting. Although transition between loops is infrequent, all animals
spend some time in each, presumably because all animals need resting time as
well as feeding time. There is probably some hormonal basis that increases
the probability of switching from one loop to another, considering the
different physiological ramifications involved in the behaviors. The feeding
loop allows the animal to be ready to detect food and/or eat it, whereas the
resting loop is less energy consuming. Future study involving applied stimuli
could show if the defense responses, either crumple or shrug (Scott, 1990),
are greater in one of the two loops.
The transition frequencies among all of the behaviors led to the
formulation of a stochastic model dependent on those frequencies. The use of
a stochastic model in descriptions of animal behavior is not new (Bekoff,
1977). Often the process so described is referred to as a Markov process, in
