could also explain the mirror pattern of the subtidal treatment. Even though the pools
are designed as a flow-through system the rate of drainage is less the rate of water
flow. This is done so that water will stay in the pool. As a result, it is possible that
during hot sunny days the subtidal water was actually heating up causing heat stress.
However, without the data logger information for this pool it is impossible to know
exactly what the water temperatures were like during the course of this study. This
hypothesis can be supported using Hofmann and Somero's (1995) study of Mytilus
trossulus. This study showed seasonal variation of Hsp 70 expression in M. trossulus.
In order to determine if environmental conditions are responsible for the
patterns of Hsp 70 expression 1 will need to analyze the data for weeks 4 and 5. The
temperature data for these weeks look very similar to the data from weeks 1 and 2.
Therefore, if the expression is linked to the environmental conditions, I would expect to
see an increase in the levels of Hsp 70 expression. However, if acclimation has
occurred it would be more likely that the levels of Hsp 70 expression will remain low
during weeks 4 and 5.
It is interesting to note the relation of the field data to the subtidal data for both
the band 1 and band 2 intensities. At week 2 the field Hsp 70 expression is below the
level of subtidal Hsp 70 expression. However, at week 3 the field level of Hsp 70
expression is above the level of Hsp 70 expression for the subtidal group. I am not
sure how to explain this pattern. One possibility is that by week 3 the subtidal group
has settled in its new environment and is seeing more food then the field mussels.
This will be determined by malate dehydrogenase (MDH) quantification. MDH is an
enzyme used in the breakdown of food. By quantifying the amount of MDH present in
a organism we can understand how much food it was collecting. This amount of
food, as well as the MDH quantity, will define the energy budget of the mussels. If the
subtidal mussels see higher food levels and thus have higher energy budgets this
might also allow these mussels to expend more energy on the production of Hsp 70,
