changes in the induction temperature can be attributed to induced thermal tolerance
In order to achieve induced thermal tolerance, also known as heat hardening, an
organism must first be exposed to sub-lethal heat stress, which causes the synthesis
of heat shock proteins, and then allowed to recover. If the organism is then exposed
to severe heat stress it may exhibit tolerance to these new higher temperatures.
It should be noted that heat shock proteins are not only synthesized in
response to heat stress. Instead, they may be induced by a number of cellular
stresses. Such stresses include chemical stress and physical stress. Thus it might
be more appropriate to call the "heat shock response" the "stress response." Heat
shock proteins are a subset of a broad class of proteins called molecular
chaperones. In most, if not all, cells molecular chaperones are present during non¬
stressful times and additional proteins are induced in response to stress. In normal
cellular function molecular chaperones are responsible for the proper folding and
compartmentalization of proteins (Figure 2)
The heat shock response does not occur without a great deal of energy being
consumed. The source of ATP use is in the production of the heat shock proteins and
the subsequent re-folding of denatured proteins. Thus, there is strict regulation of
transcription and translation of heat shock proteins. The model of regulation
presently in use suggests that the amount of free heat shock protein in the cell serves
as a signal for the amount of transcription of Hsp genes that is needed (Craig and
Gross, 1991). Furthermore, Craig and Gross suggest that there are three elements
involved in the regulation of heat shock protein production (Figure 3). The first
element is the amount of free heat shock protein. The second element is the
concentration of heat shock factor (HSF). The third element is heat shock element
(HSE), which is the gene regulatory element. Under normal conditions in the cell,
Hsp70 binds to HSF to form a complex. Thus there is very little free HSF or Hsp70 in
a cell without heat stress. As a result, no Hsp70 will be produced. Once heat stress
