expression in the intertidal treatment over the subtidal treatment. These results are in
agreement with the data that G. E. Hofmann and G. N. Somero gathered during their
1995 and 1996 studies. In comparison to the control mussels the Hsp 70 level after
one week has increased. However, what is not clear is why the subtidal group seems
to follow the same pattern of Hsp 70 expression but at a lower level. It is possible
that the stress of being moved from the intertidal, being placed indoors for a week and
then being returned to an environment, which may have no had a well established
food supply, was sufficient to induce Hsp 70 expression. Add to that stress the heat
stress seen by the intertidal group daily and you could explain the patterns of
expression, as well as the elevated levels of expression in the intertidal group.
As the weeks went on the subtidal group began to see an established
community of algae in their pool. The intertidal group also saw the establishment of
an algal community, but to a much lesser extent then the subtidal group. It is possible
that this well-established algal community means that the subtidal pool is seeing
high levels of nutrients and food, and subsequently the mussels in this pool might
also be seeing high levels of food. These high food levels could give the mussels a
larger energy budget from which to produce proteins like Hsp-70. Thus, the
establishment of these algal communities is one way to explain the lower levels of
Hsp 70 expression during week three. However, this is not the only hypothesis which
might explain the lower levels.
It is possible that around week three the mussels had begun to acclimate to
their new environment and thus were less stressed. It is also possible that the lower
levels of Hsp 70 expression in week 3 can be attributed to environmental conditions.
The temperature data show that during the first two weeks the small mussel was
seeing temperatures around 35°C almost every day. During the 3rd week, however,
there were very few days where the temperatures got higher then 20°C. These lower
temperatures could be sufficient to lower the Hsp 70 expression. This hypothesis
