Introduction
In order for proteins to function properly they need to be able to reversibly
change their conformations. As a result, proteins need to be marginally stable. That
is, they need to be able to perform rapid changes in their three-dimensional
configuration while at the same time remain adequately stable at physiological
temperature. However, proteins are often exposed to temperatures above their
normal physiological temperatures and as a result these proteins become denatured.
Proteins can be reversibly or irreversibly denatured. Thus, cells need an elaborate
system to either restore the function of reversibly denatured proteins or to dispose of
irreversibly denatured proteins. One particular class of proteins that are involved in
these "clean up" processes are known as heat shock proteins.
In 1962, Ritossa observed that the chromosomes in the salivary glands of heat
stressed Drosophila melanogaster showed a distinct pattern of "puffing" (Figure 1)
This indicated that some class of genes was being strongly transcribed as a result of
high temperatures (Somero, 1995). This response became known as the heat shock
response and the resulting proteins became known as heat shock proteins. It is now
known that there a number of different classes of heat shock proteins synthesized as
a result of heat stress. The Hsp70 family is highly conserved across species and is
the most widely induced in respond to heat stress.
In nature, the temperature at which the synthesis of heat shock proteins is first
induced, the threshold induction temperature, varies widely among species. This
makes sense since different species are evolutionarily adapted to different
temperatures and have proteins with different thermal sensitivities. Therefore, what
might constitute heat stress for one species might be within the normal range of
temperatures for another. However, induction temperatures are known to change with
seasonal acclimatization and with laboratory acclimation (Somero, 1995). These
