There is considerable evidence that embryonic mammalian cells within ventricular zones
(VZ) express many amino acid neurotransmitters and their respective receptors (Lo Turco et al.,
1991 & 1995). However, not all mammalian VZ cells proliferate, and some precursor cells begin
differentiation in the ventricular zone (Li et. al., 1998). Furthermore, using a calcium imaging
technique similar to this study, Maric et. al. found evidence that AMPA/kainate receptors first
appear in the terminal cell division stage of embryonic neural precursor cells and may be
involved in differentiation and commitment to a neuronal cell lineage (2000).
In this study, there was considerable variability in the glutamate response of PVZ cells
(366 + 149). This variability could have a physiological basis in that not all the cells of the
PVZ may express ionotropic glutamate receptors. It is possible that only a subset of PVZ cells
that have begun to differentiate are expressing such receptors which would be consistent with
previous findings in mammalian systems. It is also possible, however, that the variability was
due to the experimental design. The quality of staining with fluo-4 AM was not consistent, and
sometimes the PVZ cells would not take up the indicator.
This study could be bolstered with more experiments, particularly one using the agonists,
AMPA and NMDA. An elevated calcium response to AMPA and NMDA would provide strong
supporting evidence that the PVZ cells express functional AMPA and NMDA receptors. Also,
an in-situ hybridization analysis for mRNA transcripts encoding AMPA and NMDA submit
genes would furnish further evidence that these receptors are actively expressed.
Finally, the extent to which the ionotropic glutamate receptors are involved in
proliferation, migration, and differentiation in the PVZ cells remain unknown. However, the
existence of such receptors and the fact that they cause elevated cytosolic calcium levels implies
that glutamate acting on ionotropic receptors has a considerable role in PVZ cell signaling.
