-12-
eating every one of them before they left the rock.
The starfish also seem to return to the same rocks where
they once found food. But whether this is due to a retention
of a geographical location linked with food or just chance
wanderings was not determined. It was noted though that the
starfish in the sea table knew to stay near the bottom and on
the rocks to find their food, while the starfish, on the clay
plates, seemed to know that most of their food items migrate
to the tops of the plates so that is where they spend most
of their search time. Landenberger (1966) was able to train
Pisaster ochraceus to move to the bottom of the tank, where
food was placed, on signal. He also observed Pisaster re¬
maining near pillars from which most of the Mytilus, that made
up their food supply, dropped.
Although the plates were arranged to have varying amounts
of food in an attempt to see different searching patterns,
this was not totally successful. Plates 1 and 2, which had
an extreme abundance of sessile prey led to a reduction in
foraging and a choice of mainly B. glandula for food. This was
expected from the sea table experiments. Plates 3, 4 and 5,
which were similar except that 4 and 5 had many more limpets,
L. planaxis, and T. funebralis yielded similar foraging acti¬
vities when compared (see Table 2). Either the difference in
number of prey between the plates was not significant to yield
a large difference in foraging activity or just the act of
chosing moving prey requires that the Leptasterias move a certain
amount. The Leptasterias on plates 4 and 5 had the oppor¬
tunity to reject more prey items before the final choice.
Whereas the Leptasterias on plate 3 didn't have the same op¬
portunity. Also the food on plates 4 and 5 was often bunched
so that the starfish on these plates encountered food as fre¬
quently as those on plate 3 though the density encountered was
higher.
Although movement of the starfish on the clay plates was
closely monitored, no clear search patterns were discernable.
The starfish seemed to wander along almost randomly as noted
by Feder (1970), although they do stay closer to the top where
most of the food is. Also, they often pass over many prey items
/ Peat
