-9-
sea table it would crawl up the sides above the water line.
On the plates it would crawl out of the water and up the
strings that suspended the plate.
Also note that T. funebralis was never taken. This is
because this potential prey species has an effective escape
response and can avoid Leptasterias. They seem to be able to
crawl away faster, or if they feel really pursued, will let go
of the plate and fall to the bottom of the tank. C. pelta and
limatula also have effective escape responses and were never
caught on the plates. C. digitalis, C. paradigitalis and C.
scabra are what is meant by all use of the term "limpets"
since these are the species easily caught by the starfish.
It is possible that the above mentioned prey species,
with escape responses, are caught in the wild, where they might
possibly be trapped in a crevice or cornered. (Menge, 1972a).
But on the clay plates their behavior was effective in preventing
capture.
Ingestive Conditioning
To see if these Leptasterias could be ingestively con¬
ditioned four were placed in a bowl with M. californianus.
After 19 days and observations of 22 feedings on Mytilus,
they were transferred to individual bowls with a variety of foods.
The next day they were observed eating either limpets or
L. planaxis. It does not appear that after 19 days of exposure
to only M. californianus that they learned to prefer it. This
does not mean that they could not be injestively conditioned.
They might have a stronger conditioning to the other more pre¬
ferred foods. Or there might be a longer time period needed to
condition them. Also they might have to be conditioned to food
during a certain time in their life cycle.
Ingestive conditioning experiments done on Pisaster ochraceus
by Landenberger (1968) showed that it took three months of
constant feeding to get the starfish to show a preference of
T. funebralis. And this quickly degenerated within a week
when presented with a choice of Mytilus or T. funebralis.
Later, it will be shown that limpets are not only the
prefered choice but also provide the most calories per unit time
1fec
