-10-
for the animal. It would be adaptive then that the Leptasterias
not lose the preference for the more desired prey after only a
short exposure to another prey.
Sensing of Food
Menge (1972a) tested the long range chemosensitivity of
Leptasterias with a Y maze and obtained negative results.
Experiments for ranges of less than a centimeter had not been
done however. The "hungry" Leptasterias in the 801 tank were
model subjects for chemosensitivity tests since they hadn't
eaten for frome2 to 11 days.
When individuals were actively searching for food, a
potential prey item would be placed on the side of the tank
just out of reach of the podia on the tips of their arms.
This could be above, below or behind. Often the starfish would
pass within millimeters of the prey items and never change
course. However, if the potential prey was placed in front of
or where one of the arms of the Leptasterias would touch it, the
response was always positive and on each occasion the prey was
consumed after the first touch.
Table 1 shows the number of times that food was closely
missed and also shows the positive result when food was encount¬
ered. It is assumed that if the starfish had known food was
near, through chemosensory means, it would have moved towards
the food, since feeding after contact occurred in 100% of the
cases. Contact chemoreception and tactile sensitivity seem to
be the only methods that Leptasterias has to detect potential
prey items. Both would limit the perceptual field of the
Leptasterias to its diameter.
It has been stated that in the well mixed intertidal
zone, chemosensitivity might be of dubious value since the
direction signals could be mixed up (Menge 1972a). However,
an ability to sense something close would not have been dis¬
advantageous. Also since asteroids seem to have only tactile or
contact shemosensory means to explore their environment, no
vision or distant chemosensitivity, a question arises as to
why they pass over potential prey items when they have no
assurance that they will encounter more desirable ones?
7 Petel
