INTRODUCTION
There are two ways a starfish could feed in its en¬
vironment. It could just feed randomly on the prey it happens
to be near, or it could select prey according to certain cri¬
teria. Prey preferences have been documented for many starfish
(Menge, 1972a; Feder, 1959). But obviously more than prefer¬
ence must be involved in the selection of a meal. The
densities of different preferred prey, the spaceing of the
preferred animals and times between contacts with the prey
might all affect what is eventually chosen as the final prey,
And looking at these parameters in detail might enlighten the
question of how the animal selects its food.
The more intriguing question, however, is can the Lep¬
tasterias learn to assimilate the data about densities, prey
items and contact time in order to make decissions in each
different environment about what will be the best prey to
select for consumption? The behavior of selecting food is
very complex and might have a component of learning about
the terrain rather than just an instinctive or biochemical
basis.
These questions could be studied quite readily in
Leptasterias. Leptasterias are small six armed starfish found
readily in the lower intertidal zone around Monterey Bay.
Because of their small size, they were the best choice for in
lab experiments. They could be put into a controlled habitat
that approximated in size their own natural habitat.
Leptasterias are also food generalists and are found in
many habitats with their diet varying according to surroundings.
This was also an attribute needed for the experiments since an
attempt to determine what prey would be chosen in different
habitats was a key component of the preject.
Finally, Leptasterias have no distant chemoreception
(Menge, 1972) so their knowledge of their surroundings must
come from contact. This makes it easier to determine what
prey is actually recognized since contact is necessary, rather
than trying to decide if the starfish sensed something.
T Prag
