-13
before selecting one. The criteria for the final choice also
could not be discerned.
Selection of Prey Items
Each potential prey item that is passed near and touched
is usually felt out by the arm that touches it. Occasionally
the starfish will move over to the prey item as though to eat
but then pass it over. As stated before, the actual criteria
for selection is not certain but it seems clear that the time
between the last meal, the kind of prey item that is contacted
as well as how often prey is contacted are important.
Figure 7 shows that "hungry" starfish will rarely pass
over the first meal they touch, while it is quite common for
the well fed starfish on the plates to walk over five to ten
highly preferred prey items (including species they will eventu¬
ally choose) before eating. Perhaps because of past experiences
plate asteroids assume they will find more prey because food is
abundant, whereas the "hungry" starfish in the 80 1 tank only
encounter food when it is presented to them so might take the
first available since it is all they are likely to find from
their knowledge of prey density in their environment.
A couple of the "hungry" starfish were fed within periods
that the starfish on the plates would normally eat. So as
far as consumption of food, they should not have been any
hungrier than those on the plates. But they still took the
first item given, whereas those on the plates, even after not
eating for a few days, would still pass potential prey over.
Caloric Basis of Prey Selection
Observed prey preferences may stem from a biochemical basis
that makes it more advantages that the starfish select a certain
prey over another. Figure 8 shows that the calories per food
item per hour that it takes to eat the prey item compare favorably
to the preference list. C. digitalis, C. paradigitalis, C.
scabra and L. planaxis were seen to be prefared. Of these, the
limpets yield the most calories per unit time.
Another consideration, besides just the time specific
yield of calories for a prey item, is how easy it is to catch.
This is also shown on figure 8. If a food is high in calories
7 Pea
