-11-
Feeding Patterns
Frequency of Eating
Landenberger (1968) reported that Pisaster ochraceus are
insatiable feeders. Data from experiments on the clay plates
and from the feeding bowls shows that Leptasterias and small
Pisaster ochraceus tend to have eating bouts followed by spaces
that range from two to four or more days. Figures 4 and 5 show
these results. Feder (1970) also noted "periods when individual
sea stars do not feed."
The animals will often eat more than one item a day, in
fact it may eat two or three in quick succession. Dropping
the shell of one prey item and quickly securing another has
been observed. The animals often move while eating and could
be scanning the area for the next meal or possibly making a
determination of prey density which might influence consumption.
Animals that are presented with an abundance of food in
a small area, like the bowl experiments, did seem to eat a
somewhat larger amount than those on the plates. So the
frequency of contact and abundance of food might have a posi¬
tive effect on eating response.
Movement Related to Searching and Eating
Starfish are capable of moving quite rapidly on occasion.
The "hungry" starfish in the 80 1 tank were in general active
and have been measured moving at over 30cm per minute. On the
other hand, when prey is abundant, in the area that the starfish
occupies, it will usually remain in one spot and eat an area
bare of easily caught prey before moving on, if not disturbed.
The sea table experiment provided evidence that Leptasterias
and Pisaster, in an area with abundant prey, will tend to stay
in that area. Figure 6 shows this. Most of these asteroids
spent near or over 50% of the days they were monitored in one
place eating the available food.
One experiment was run with B. glandula as the predominant
food and another experiment with limpets as the most abundant.
Either food seemed to be attractive enough, when in such large
amounts, to hold the animals in one spot. Observations were
made of two Pisasters remaining on a rock with 16 limpets and
T fer
