-15
GENERAL DISCUSSION
From the experiments just cited, a few generalizations
can be made about some aspects of the feeding behavior of
Leptasterias. Although the experiments were performed with an
arbitrary set of prey items this would not necessarily be
different from a starfish moving into a new environment. The
presentation of different prey is still valid and the even¬
tual choices still have signigicance when looked at as a model
of feeding strategy.
The abundance of the prey items affects gross average
movement of the feeding asteroids. It would be expected though
that starfish in havitats of abundant food would have less
reason to move in search of food or to continue to explore the
environment and this is what was observed. Both starfish in
the sea table and those on the plates 1 and 2 which were abun¬
dant with sessile organisms are evidence of this.
The frequency of eating proved surprising. Landenberger
(1968) expressed the opinion that cold blooded animals ex¬
perience neither hunger nor satiation as understood by humans.
So why don't the starfish feed at a more constant rate? One
thought is that they use the time between meals to explore
their habitat. Another is that they consume food at a rapid
rate for a few days and then must give their bodies time to
digest and distribute the stomachs contents.
The fact that starfish are generally more selective when
there is an abundance of food and less selective when food is
scarce has been observed (Menge, 1972; Sioan, 1980). This
investigation indicates they will take a prey item on the first
contact when prey densities are low but will pass over prey
when densities are high. Both of these would suggest some sort
of ability to remember and recall facts as to the content and
density of prey in the environment while foraging.
It was seen that the starfish in the food bowls had
definite prey preferences and these choices remained fairly
constant in the experiments with simulated environments.
Leptasterias lacks vision and long range chemoreception so
unless they have some means of remembering what they have
7 ferd
