5.
-6
controls for eating experiments as well as subjects for
chemosensitivity experiments. By "hungry" I mean that no
food was in the tank and the starfish received food only
when presented with it. This was control of when and how
much they ate could be maintained.
Six Leptasterias and five Pisaster were established in a
sea table (10 cm deep, .75m X .6m). Rocks with prey items
were placed in the sea table. The prey was very abundant.
One set of experiments was run using B. glandula as the
most abundant food item. Rocks covered with B. glandula
covered approximately 75% of the bottom of the sea table.
Another experiment was run with C. digitalis and C. scabre
approximately 70 limpets were placed on six flat rocks in
the sea table. There were no changes in the tide. The
animals had a natural light/dark cycle, although direct
sunlight was kept off them by a shade. The positions and
feeding of these starfish were checked periodically.
Nine Leptasterias and two Pisaster ochraceus were placed
on a series of clay plates that were suspended by string
vertically in a 801 tank. The tiles were originally 900cm
but were epoxied together to form plates that varied in
size from 30 X 60 cm to 30 X 180cm. A variety of limpets,
T. funebralis, L. planaxis, B. glandula and M. californianus
were introduced onto the plates. Different concentrations
of different species were used on the plates, some sparsely
populated and others abundantly. The plates were under
constant lighting and running sea water (temp - 15°C +.25).
The animals received a low tide from approximately 8 AM
to noon each day of the experiment. These animals were
closely monitored from three to ten hours a day. Obser¬
vations, on a map of the plates, were made as to what
potential prey was touched, at what time and at what place
on the plate. Feeding choices were observed and handling
of prey noted. The shells from the finished food items
would fall to the bottom of the tank under the plate and
could later be secured to confirm species and make measure¬
ments.
The plates and the number of each prey item on them are
7 Ral
