-16-
previously encountered, while exploring their environment, it
would be hard to understand how they could take a chance in
passing up one potential prey item in the expectation of finding
another.
The fact that 19 days of exposure to another known food
item doesn't change the selection of more preferred items, when
seen again in small but recognizable amounts, shows that pre¬
ferences are based on more than just short term prior exposure
and abundance. Also since preferred items are usually nutri¬
tionally superior to other items of prey, having a preference
does serve a purpose and this preference should be exploited
as much as possible.
To optimize caloric intake per unit of feeding time,
including exploration, capture and ingestion, it would not
be in the best interest of the starfish to just consume the
most plentiful prey or even whatever prey it comes across, but
to know what is available in its environment and how it fits
into the preference scheme.
Actual selection probably depends on the prey species
(related to prey preference, ease of capture and nutritional
value), the number of contacts with this species in the en¬
vironment and the time between encounters. Depending on the
environment a less prefered species might be eaten because
the chances of finding the other more preferred is not high.
Diets are seen to vary with locality (Mauzey et al.,
1968; Menge, 1972a; Menge and Menge, 1974) and since starfish
often wander into areas of idfferent prey densities, some
component of learning might be associated with feeding behavior
in each new situation. Despite their limited means of perception,
through searching behavior and tactile assessment of the en¬
vironment, the starfish might learn enough about the surround¬
ings to apply this knowledge to a set of internal criteria to
select the best prey item.
Of course much more work needs to be done on this problem
of selective feeding. Putting more Leptasterias in different
environments and increasing the monitoring of contacts with
prey and time between meals will be necessary. It seems fairly
obvious however that feeding in starfish is not random or chance
but is a complex behavior with many components, some environ¬
mental and some intrinsic to the animal.
7 Peat
