RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Food Preference
Leptasterias has a food preference hierarchy that is
shown in figure 1 and 2. The most obvious evidence for this
scheme comes from the isolated Leptasterias in small bowls and
their different prey choices. Two different bowl experiments
were run. In these experiments, Leptasterias had available, in
a small area, 15 to 25 individuals of 4 species of prey in one
experiment and 7 individuals of 5 species in another. It is
assumed that all prey were encountered and the small size of
the container would limit the effectiveness of any escape
responses. The most frequently taken species were the limpets
and L. planaxis. Rarely were the M. californianus of T. fune¬
bralis taken and never before the more preferred species were
gone.
B. glandula was not included in the food bowls, but can be
placed into this preference hierarchy by observations made on
the clay plates and in the sea table. Here B. glandula was
the fourth choice after the limpets, L. planaxis and M. califor¬
nianus. One can see this by looking at figure 3 for plates 3,
4 and 5. The preference for B. glandula however is variable.
The choice of M. californianus over B. glandula is dependent
on the size of the Mytilus and the density of B. glandula.
Large M. californianus and plentiful B. glandula will lead to
more meals on B. glandula. This is seen again in figure 3 for
plates 1 and 2. B. glandula were abundant on the first two
plates and M. californianus were to large to handle efficiently,
so more B. glandula were eaten. Plates 3 and 4 had only one
small patch of B. glandula and smaller M. californianus, so
M. californianus were seen to be more preferred. Of course
these choices always follow the more preferred limpets and
L. planaxis.
Even though L. planaxis is known to be preferred from
bowl experiments, figure 3 shows that is was not often taken
outside of the finger bowls. This is because the animal often
crawls out of the searching range of the Leptasterias. In the
T teo
