Diane Campbell, Temperature and habitat effects in Dodecaceria fewkesi. p. 6
animals.) However, both variation in weight between animals and any
weight changes over the two week period must be taken into account. Wharf
worms kept at 20° or cycled from 6° to 20°C lost about 5%% of their weight.
When respiratory rates are recalculated assuming all weight change was
due to water loss, the differences between pre-acclimation and post-accli¬
mation lines are more than compensated for. Intertidal worms kept at 6
were considerably smaller than the pre-acclimation sample. That no weight
loss occurred is indicated by the facts that,contrary to wharf worms,
for intertidal ones this is the only smaller group, this group alone was
taken from the sparsely populated edge of a colony, and animals kept at
6° in plexiglass are as heavy as the pre-acclimation sample. In addition
wharf animals which lost weight showed tightly drawn skin and loss of
pigment and died soon after, whereas intertidal ones kept at 6' appeared
healthy. Since these animals were then probably smaller to start with,
and smaller animals generally have higher respiratory rates, their respiratory
rates were adjusted to the average pre-acclimation weight according to the
expression R - (W./W)'-bR,, where W,- average weight of an animal kept
at 6°, W - average weight of pre-acclimation animals, R. - measured
respiratory rate, and the coefficient b - 0.64, that of the closest relative
for which it has been determined, Cirratulus cirratus, as measured by
Courtney (1958). The corrected rate / temperature curve was still higher
than that for pre-acclimation animals, but the difference, as for the
case when it is corrected according to the other possible assumption for
the cause of weight difference, was no longer significant. In addition,
the rate / temperature curve for animals kept at 6° in plexiglass was
not significantly higher than the pre-acclimation curve.
Animals from the three habitats react differently to heat stress.
