ABSTRACT:
Previous studies have demonstrated that a suite of physiological and biochemical factors
contribute to the establishment of a species’ thermal tolerance limits and vertical distribution
patterns in the marine intertidal. In this study, the thermal limits of heart function were
determined for three congeneric marine snail species of the genus Tegula, all inhabiting discrete
vertical zones in the intertidal. T. funebralis is found in the low- to mid-intertidal, T. brunnea in
the subtidal to low-intertidal, and T. montereyi in the subtidal zone. Using impedance electrodes,
changes in heart rate were monitored in field-acclimatized and lab-acclimated specimens of each
species, in response to thermal stresses in water. Significant interspecific differences in
Arrhenius break temperature values (ABT, the temperature at which heart rate began a sharp
decline) were observed. Average ABTs for field-acclimatized T. funebralis, T. brunnea, and T.
montereyi were 31°C, 25°C and 24°C, respectively, establishing a positive correlation between
cardiac upper thermal tolerance limits and maximum habitat temperatures. Flatline
temperatures, defined as those at which hearts ceased to beat, followed the same trend—T.
funebralis hearts stopped beating at significantly higher temperatures than the two subtidal
species. In response to cold stress, T. funebralis maintained cardiac function at lower
temperatures than its congeners, demonstrating that it is more eurythermal. In all three species,
ABTs of specimens lab-acclimated to 22°C were higher than those of 14°C lab-acclimated snails.
T. funebralis, however, showed the smallest ABT difference between acclimation temperatures,
indicating that it may have a lower capacity for thermal acclimation. The results of this study
suggest that the mid-intertidal species T. funebralis is living closer to its upper thermal tolerance
limits. Thus T. funebralis populations, and perhaps warm-adapted intertidal species in general,
may be at highest risk in the event of global climate change.
