FIGURE LEGEND:
Fig. 1. Snail heart rate traces from Chart Recorder software for a T. funebralis specimen (A) and
a T. montereyi specimen (B). Time and voltage scales are provided.
Fig. 2. Heart rate profiles of Tegula congeners in response to heat stress. Representative
specimens of each species were chosen, with T. funebralis, T. brunnea, and T. montereyi shown
in A, B, and C, respectively.
Fig. 3. Arrehnius plots of the Tegula congener heart rate profiles shown in Fig. 1. In each plot,
linear regressions were performed on both sides of the inflection point, and the intersection of the
two lines was taken as the Arrhenius Break Temperature (ABT). T. funebralis, T. brunnea, and
T. montereyi specimens are represented in A, B, and C, respectively.
Fig. 4. Critical Temperatures of field-acclimatized Tegula congeners. Average Arrhenius Break
Temperatures and flatline temperatures are shown for each species, and error bars are standard
errors of the mean (n=13 for T. funebralis, n=11 for T. brunnea, and n=10 for T. montereyi).
Fig. 5. Cardiac thermal tolerance ranges of Tegula congeners. Lower limits are average flat-line
temperatures from cold ramps, and upper limits are average flatline temperatures from heat
ramps. Error bars are standard errors of the mean (for upper limits n=13 for T. funebralis, n=11
for T. brunnea, and n=10 for T. montereyi; for lower limits, n-6 for all species).
Fig. 6. Effects of thermal acclimation on Tegula congener critical temperatures. Average
Arrhenius break temperatures are shown in A, and average flatline temperatures are shown in B.
Error bars are standard errors of the mean (n=6 for T. funebralis, n-5 for T. brunnea, and n-6 for
T. montereyi).
Fig. 7. Constant-temperature control runs. Heart rate profiles of T funebralis (A) and T.
brunnea (B) specimens over 7 hours with constant temperature. Control runs were designed to
assess the potentially confounding effects of the experimental conditions on heart function.
Fig. 8. Estimation of snail body temperature. A gelatin-filled snail shell was used to
approximate the thermal properties of snail tissue. Thermocouple probe measurements of the
gelatin are shown in relation to the temperature of the water bath.
Fig. 9 Average resting heart rates of Tegula congeners. "Resting" were measured as the heart
rate after an hour of acclimation to 13°C, for all specimens subjected to heat ramps. Error bars
are standard errors of the mean (n-24 for T. funebralis, n-20 for T. brunnea, n-21 for T.
montereyi).
