develops at a considerably faster rate than the rest of the tectum. This idea also fits with current
information on the timing and location of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) projections. For, as mentioned in
the Introduction, RGCs begin to assemble retinofugal pathways through the tectum by the third day
after hatching, and continue to develop in a plastic fashion thereafter; thus the superficial layer must
undergo especially intense development from 3 to 7 days after hatching.
It is not apparent, however whether this flaring is due to cell proliferation or migration. To be
sure, at a glance it appears that cells are indeed proliferating faster at the tips than at the middle
regions. However, closer inspection reveals that the largest flare (Figure 1b, on the right) is
correlated with a large "dip" in the region immediately adjacent. This suggests that flaring is at least
partially the result of preferential migration, rather than just proliferation.
As with in-plane observations, my observation regarding across-plane growth is also supported
by previous studies. (Easter, Nicola 1997) To be sure, it stands in possible conflict with the
"behavioral encephalization" theory which was developed several years ago (Armstrong and Higgins,
1971) and was later supported by Kimmel et al. (1974) For, unlike my suggestion that growth is
uniform along the rostrocaudal plane, this theory suggests that neural control and development
progresses in a caudorostral fashion, from the spinal cord to the forebrain. Nevertheless, this theory
is far from standard. Since its formulation it has been refuted repeatedly (See Easter, Nicola 1997 for
more examples), by evidence that suggests a more or less even development along the rostrocaudal
axis.
Finally, regarding the images produced with FM 1-43FX, it will be interesting to see how brain
activity - including synapse formation - develops and is distributed over the layers of the tectum at
different ages. Based on present data, one might speculate that the area of greatest activity - and
thus the densest region of FM 1-43FX dyed puncta - might reside along the superficial margins of the
tectum in a 3-day or 4-day old fish. However, further research using confocal and electron
microscope techniques must be conducted before such a speculation can be assessed.
