dropped into a droplet of water on a microscope slide, manipulated and flattened with forceps. They
were arranged serially in order of right-to-left, top-to-bottom (like words on a page).
Image Processing. Photographs of all sections were taken at 20x with white light under a
Olympus Model BH-2 Microscope with Plan Objectives, using a Nikon Coolpix 995 digital camera [3.2
megapixel] attached to the top of microscope with an adapter (Martin Microscope MMCOOL adapter).
Any extremely blurry pictures, pictures of mangled sections, or otherwise completely unusable images
were discarded, and the remaining were enhanced, aligned and compiled into .avi movies using
Irfanview software (www.irfanview.com).
Confocal microscopy
FM 1-43FX. (wWW. probes.com, Catt F
5355) This fluorescent lipophilic dye is presumed to
brightly stain the outer leaflet of cell membranes. Moreover, it is believed to become internalized into
synaptic vesicles, causing nerve terminals to fluoresce intensely. Although it is water-soluble, it will
not automatically fluoresce in aqueous medium; it must be taken up by cell membranes.
Injection. Each larva was placed in a Petri dish and submerged in 1.5% agarose gel, and then
anesthetized with [??%1 tricaine methanesulfonate (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). The dish was then placed
under a dissection microscope, and the larva was pressure-injected with FM 1-43FX dye using a
microelectrode produced on a microcapillary tube puller. In general, the microelectrode was inserted
twice: once on each side of the bilateral axis, along the imaginary line connecting the outer back
edges of larva's eyes. Following injection, the fish was returned to its system water in order to let the
dye circulate through their ventricular system and into the cell membranes.
Microscopy. Stacks and single images were produced along the dorsal-ventral and
rostrocaudal axes, respectively. Magnifications used were 20x, 60x, and 100x. In each case Kalman
4 averaging was applied (i.e., each image was produced by taking 4 pictures of one plane and
averaging them together) to reduce noise.
Serial-Sectioning Scanning Electron Microscopy
