Introduction
Fast developing and reproducing, the zebrafish Danio rerio undergoes enormous development
in the first few days of its life. Its visual capabilities grow especially rapidly, enabling zebrafish larvae
to pursue moving prey by its second day after hatching. Early researchers had presumed this prey-
pursuit milestone to mark the official beginning of zebrafish visual behavior (Clark, 1981); however,
more recent findings have revealed even earlier signs. Barely-hatched fish, for example, may exhibit
a visually-evoked startle response (as opposed to touch-evoked response, which begins even earlier).
Next, tracking eye movements often kick in a few hours later. (Easter and Nicola, 1996) Ultimately, a
vigorous, adult-like saccade reflex may begin to develop in larvae as early as 3 days after hatching.
(Easter and Nicola, 1997)
Necessarily, the brain region largely responsible for these behaviors - the optic tectum (or, in
mammals, the superior colliculus) - develops at a hectic pace during these first few days. Comprising
two conspicuous, layered structures atop the teleost brain, this complex integrative center is
responsible for numerous functions, including the execution of precise visuomotor capabilities (Salas,
et al. 1997). The optic tectum is also the home of a retinotopic map: the superficial layer of each
lobe of the tectum receives input from the contralateral retina in a precise, organized fashion.
Energetic formation of this map begins just 3 days after hatching, as retinal ganglion cells (RGCS)
project axons into the outermost reaches of the tectum.
In this project, I recorded the morphological development of the zebrafish brain, examining
fish at 3 days, 5 days, and 7 days after hatching. Because the brain's 3-D layout is so integral to its
function, I used methods which would elaborate this layout. Namely, I approached the task through
three different sets of 3-D images: serial sectioning; confocal microscopy; and scanning electron
microscopy.
To begin, I serially sectioned one complete brain for each age, ultimately producing for each a
cataloque of consecutive, 3-micron-thick sections for examination under a conventional light
