and microciliates. Eventually fish were segregated according to hatching date, and once they were
four days old (post-hatching age) they were fed baby Artemia (brine shrimp) every other day.
Serial sectioning
Fixation and dehydration. Larvae were anesthetized with [?2%1 tricaine methanesulfonate
(Sigma, St. Louis, MO) and fixed whole overnight at room temperature on a slow rotator, in a solution
comprising .5% glutaraldehyde in 75% Hanks + 10mM HEPES. The next morning they were rinsed in
(non-glutaraldehyde-containing) 75% Hanks + 10mM HEPES for 2x10 minutes, and then processed
for 10 minutes in each of 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, and 100% EtOH solutions,
all stages of which occurred upon a slow rotator.
Embedding. The samples were then embedded in JB-4 Plus plastic (Embedding Kit Catt 18570
from Polysciences Inc.). To this I used a novel protocol, because when I had followed the
manufacturer's directions with the resources available, I had difficulty obtaining proper orientation of
the samples. So, first I infiltrated the samples according to the directions: they sat at room
temperature and over slow rotation in a solution of JB-4 Plus + benzoyl peroxide catalyst for 2x1 hour
and then overnight. Then I embedded the samples in large disk-shaped molds in non-airtight
conditions at 4°C in the directed solution of JB-4 Plus + benzoyl peroxide + accelerator for 2 hours.
Finally I let the samples harden in vacuum conditions (Denton Vacuum Model DV-502) at room
temperature for several hours. The results of this procedure were not perfect, but they were vastly
improved over those of standard procedure, wherein the fish became misaligned for sectioning, or the
plastic did not even harden.
Histology and Microscopy. The samples were cut out of their disks into blocks, according to
the parameters needed to achieve rostrocaudal orientation in the microtome. Approximately the first
third of each fish was then sliced into Zu-thick sections, using a Dupont-Sorval Model MT-2B Porter
Blum Ultramicrotome. The ultramicrotome used glass knives, which I manufactured and replaced as
needed using a standard knife cutter (LKB Knife Maker Model 7801). One at a time, each section was
