Electron microscope stacks were produced in Heidelberg, Germany, on a microscope recently
invented by Winfried Denk and Heinz Horstmann. (Max Planck Institute) Samples were produced
through the collaboration of Denk, Horstmann, JoAnn Buchanan, Stuart Thompson and Steven Smith,
For further information regarding methods and materials used for this part of the project, see Denk,
Horstmann, 2004.
Results
Serial Sectioning
Primitive analysis of the serial sectioning stacks reveal differences in the rate of cell migration
along the proximal-distal axis. As apparent in Figure 1, during the first week after hatching the
cellular region of the deep ventricular zone grows everywhere larger as cells proliferated. However,
this increase does not occur evenly: the greatest increase in cell number appears to occur along the
bilateral axis.
It is conceivable that this difference merely results from sampling error, i.e., that it simply
reflects natural variability between the fish that were sectioned. However, excluding natural variance,
it is not likely that the perceived difference is an artifact. To begin, these images were chosen to
reflect - as much as possible - the same region in each brain: each is of the front-most section past
the eyes. Moreover, it cannot be the result of an oblique cutting job. For, if the sectioning had
occurred at an oblique angle, the eyes would have appeared egg shaped in previous pictures; in fact
however, the cylindrical eyes appear uniformly wide from top to bottom.
In addition to the uneven thickening along the proximal edges of the tectal lobes, each end of
the cellular regions of each lobe becomes more "flared." In other words, the most superficial layer of
the tectum - which is where the topographic map of retinal information will eventually reside - is
filled in from the edges, more rapidly than the middle zones. This results in a neuropil-filled "pocket"
in each lobe that becomes increasingly enclosed by cell bodies migrating around it. Interestingly,
