microscope. These catalogues provided me with a comprehensive view of neuroblast proliferation
and migration through the first week.
I also helped prepare confocal images of whole and dissected larvae, which were injected with
the lipophilic, fixable tracer dye FM 1-43FX. Not only did the confocal microscope reveal the brain
with matchless clarity and detail, but the use of FM 1-43FX dye afforded particular advantages. For,
FM 1-43FX and its analogs are presumed to intensely stain cell membranes and especially synaptic
vesicles. Therefore, if current understanding is accurate, FM 1-43FX actually pinpoints the synapses
which were fired between the times of injection and fixation.
Finally, I looked at electron microscope serial-section images of the neuropil region in the
tectum of a 5-day old fish. Like the fish examined under the confocal microscope, this fish had also
been injected with FM 1-43FX. Both the sections and images were produced by a serial-sectioning,
scanning electron microscope recently invented by Winfried Denk and Heinz Horstmann. (2004)
Materials and Methods
Aquaculture
Adult zebrafish were purchased online and kept in single-sex tanks of aerated, 28.5 °C water.
The fish were maintained on a 24-h cycle of 14 h light and 10 h darkness, and fed alternately with
dechorionated brine shrimp eggs (www.brineshrimpdirect.com) and TetraMin Flakes (TetraWerke,
Melle, Germany). Fish were bred according to the "Simple Method for Steady, Low-level Embryo
Production" as described in The Zebrafish Book (Westerfield, 2000) and the fertilized eggs were
gathered the next morning by siphon and counted. After letting the eggs sit in a weak bleach
solution (.Iml 5% sodium hypochlorite in 170ml water) for 2x5 minutes, eggs were distributed into
six-well plates containing 10% Hanks, .14 mM HEPES and a trace of methylene blue. Thereupon they
were reared in this same "system water" solution, which was changed fresh daily. Well-plates were
placed in a 28.5°C incubator set to a 14h/10h light cycle, and thereafter inspected daily for bacteria
