although overall cell proliferation apparently occurs most rapidly along the proximal edge of each lobe
(as mentioned earlier), flaring is more apparent along the distal ends of the tectum.
To be sure, just as with the accelerated proliferation along the bilateral axis, it is possible that
this flare-effect is due to sampling error. However, it cannot be some unremarkable consequence of
the inwardly curving shape of the brain. That is, it is not possible that the cells at the distal edges are
just getting "pushed" around the edges because there isn't enough room. After all, the
periventricular zone actually slopes down at its rightmost tip in the 7-day old fish (Figure 1b), which
would provide proliferating cells with ample extra room to distribute themselves more evenly.
Finally, besides comparing growth rates within the image plane, I also compared the rate of
growth across images, i.e., along the rostrocaudal axis. Apparently, in contrast to the non-uniform
growth pattern along the proximal-distal axis, growth along the rostrocaudal axis appears quite
uniform. (Figure 2) Based on rough inspection, rate of cell increase did not appear significantly
greater in the hindbrain than in the fore-regions, or vice versa.
Confocal and scanning electron microscopy
Confocal and electron microscope images displayed tiny, intense puncta (appearing white in
the confocal images; black in the SEM images), which were scattered among the cell bodies and in
the neuropil. Although information is not yet conclusive, the size of these dots suggest that they
could indeed be the remnants of synaptic vesicles. (See Figures 3, 4) Note: when looking at Figure
3b, large spots of brightness are probably not significant but rather artifacts of the injection process;
a portion of the FM 1-43FX dye tends to remain concentrated in the location of injection, whether or
not that region is especially active.
Discussion
My suggestion that cells most repidly fill the superficial layer of the tectum (i.e., that the
cellular region of the deep zones "flares"), concurs with previous studies on zebrafish brain
development. In particular, Murray explicitly suggests (1996) that the "neuropil-rich marginal zone"
