allowed a recovery period. Alternatively, the differences between the results of the studies might
simply reflect taxonomic differences of the study animals chosen for each experiment.
Although there was relatively little variation among the different species in patterns of
Hsp 70 expression following cold shock, evidence from the chill coma experiment indicates that
T. funebralis may be less severely stressed by exposure to cold than its two subtidal congeners.
While cold exposure may not directly kill T. brunnea or T. pulligo, it may render them incapable
of responding to other cues and conditions in the environment, putting them at a significant
disadvantage relative to T. funebralis. Transplant studies similar to those done for heat stress
(Tomanek 2002) could indicate whether the observed differences have any effect in situ.
Since T. funebralis seem more capable of tolerating cold treatment, but no interspecific
variation of patterns of Hsp 70 expression were found, T. funebralis may have some other
method of coping with cold stress. This could be investigated more directly in further studies by
tracing radioactively labeled amino acids or using DNA micro-array technology.
CONCLUSIONS
All species exhibited a significant decrease in endogenous Hsp 72 10 h following the end
of a 10 h cold exposure. This suggests that different lengths of exposure to cold elicit different
physiological responses to the cold shock. While patterns of Hsp 72 expression were similar
among species, there were differences in behavior of individuals exposed to 1° C air and 3° C
water. The chill comas exhibited by T. brunnea in the 1° C air and 3° C water and T. pulligo in
the 1° C air indicate that these species could be less capable than T. funebralis of responding to
changes in the environment following cold shock. Since patterns of Hsp 72 expression were
similar among species, it may be that T. funebralis has some other mechanism for dealing with
cold stress not possessed by its subtidal congeners.
