variation, with the exception of MDH. This could give us implications about their
speciation. Perhaps they evolved into separate species relatively recently (within the
last million years as versus 5 million years). Although their morphology has
diverged, their biochemistry may not have "caught up" with their external changes.
The enzymes tested may be highly selected for and therefore conserved over the
millions of years. On the other hand, the morphological differences that exist must
have some biochemical basis therefore there are some biochemical differences.
More enzymes would have to be examined to be more definitive.
The IDH isozymes varied within individual tissues. The IDH-A locus was
expressed only in the liver tissue (both species) and was absent in the muscle
sample. IDH-B was present exclusively in muscle tissues of the two species. This
variation tells us that a different locus is expressed in each of the two tissues. It is
important to realize that both species exhibited the identical variation between the
tissues. IDH-A had the same electrophoretic mobility in both species. IDH-B also
showed matching electrophoretic movement between the species.
GPI was the only system to show variation within a species. A heterozygote
was detected in S. paucispinis in both liver and muscle tissue. The other fish tested
were homozygotes of the fast allele (GPI-B44). The rare allele, b, was seen to have
a frequency of 2.5%. From this, the chance of the rare homozygote appearing can
be predicted. The frequency of allele GPI-B°° appearing is 0.0625%. Besides this
one case, no other variation was seen for glucosephosphate isomerase.
MDH showed the only variation between species of the six enzyme systems
tested (Fig. 12 and 13). S. goodei possessed the isozyme MDH-D and S. paucispinis
did not. The fact that this enzyme system was different between the two can be a
powerful diagnostic tool. Given a tissue sample of either of these two species one
could deduce the species the tissue sample came from just by staining for MDH.
This may be especially helpful when trying to determine the correct species of
