FIGURE LEGENDS
Fig. 1: Histochemical staining for PGM of S.goodei (C), and S. paucispinis (B),
muscle (M), and liver (L). The PGM-B band can be seen faintly above the liver
samples of both species. The muscle PGM-B electromorph is present but it cannot
be seen in this photograph. Actual gel size is 4X larger than photograph.
2: Composite drawing for all gels stained for PGM. No electrophoretic
variation can be detected for this locus.
Fig. 3: Starch gel stained for GPI. Genetic variation is seen at the GPI-A isozyme,
GPI-A activity is detected in muscle tissue (both species), and is absent in the liver
samples. This differential loci expression between tissues is genetic variation within
an individual.
Fig. 4: Summary drawing of gels stained for GPI. Genetic variation within each
individual (for both species) is detected at the isozyme GPI-A. Muscle tissue
expresses loci GPI-A and GPI-B. Liver tissue shows only the GPI-A phenotype.
Fig. 5: Drawing showing the polymorphism found at the GPI-B electromorph in
both liver and muscle. Columns 1 and 4 show the heterozygote phenotype, columns
2 and 5 the abundant homozygote (95% of the fish I tested), and columns 3 and 6
the unseen homozygote. The allozymes of GPI-B are GPI-Bda, GPI-Ba
and GPI¬
BDb
Fig. 6: Histochemical staining for EST. No electrophoretic variation can be
detected for this enzyme.
Fig. 7: Summary of EST stains. No electromorphs are shown in the muscle columns
because results could not be obtained for this tissue.
Fig. 8: Gel stained for IDH activity. Muscle and liver tissue each express different
loci. IDH-A activity is detected in the liver and IDH-B is expressed solely in the
muscle. Both species show this trend.
Fig. 9: Composite drawing of gels stained for the IDH-A and IDH-B phenotypes.
Fig.10: Sorbitol dehydrogenase activity detected in the muscle and liver of S.
paucispini and S. goodei. No detectable electrophoretic variation exists between
tissues, individuals, or species.
Fig.11: Drawing of SDH stain showing absence of genetic variation.
Fig.12: Gel, stained for MDH activity, shows genetic variation between species.
The MDH-D locus is only expressed in S. goodei, and is completely absent in S.
paucispini.
Fig.13: Drawing of MDH loci. Phenotype MDH-D shows genetic variation
between the species S. paucispini and S. goodei.
