The second, found south of Cape Mendecino, had the same three bands as the northern
populations with an additional band at approximately 800bp (Fig 2b). This additional band
coincides with the band found by LaJeunesse and Trench (2000) in southern anemone
populations, and may represent both large fragments (867bp and 794bp) predicted by the
sequence for S. californium in GenBank (AF225965). The 129bp fragment predicted by this
sequence is visible in digests of all samples from Pacific Grove and Bodega Bay and one from
Salt Point (Fig 3a), but not in those north of Bodega Bay (Fig 3b). This may be due to poor
amplification of S. californium from anemones with mixed populations (LaJeunesse and Trench,
2000). Alternatively, it may be due to the loss of a restriction site in some S. californium from
northern anemones. Digests displaying the 800bp band from Pacific Grove to Cape Mendocino
yielded an additional band at around 1000bp not described by LaJeunesse and Trench (2000), a
band especially strong in those digests that did not show the 129bp fragment. This 1000bp band
may represent bases 1-1000 of the amplified S. californium fragment, undigested either due to
loss of the 867bp restriction site in these populations or an incomplete digestion.
Notably, the band pattern representative of S. californium is absent in digests from
Albion and Point Arena, both of which are south of Cape Mendocino. All samples from these
two sites, as well as several from Mattole Road and two from the south side of Trinidad Head,
displayed a patter similar to that from northern samples but with two additional bands: one near
880bp, the other near 480bp (Fig 2c). This new restriction pattern is undescribed, and may
represent a new Symbiodinium type endemic to the central California coast.
In the two collection locations where multiple restriction patterns were present, samples
didn’t appear to be correlated to elevation above mean tide level or basic microhabitat type. At
the Mattole Road location, the only one to show all three restriction patterns, there appeared to
