Page 77
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
Studies on Mollusk Populations
VI. — Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1855
(Mollusca : Gastropoda)
RUDOLF STOHLER
Department of Zoology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720
(5 Text figures)
ON pages 316 and 317 of the Proceedings of the Zoological
No illustrations were available for the typical species or
Society of London for the year 1854 (published on May
for the variant until DALL in WILLIAMSON (1892) gave
8, 1855) A. ADAMS described our common intertidal black
the first figure of a specimen which is presumed to be
the type of CARPENTER's variety (see Figure 1). As the
turban as follows:
description by CARPENTER (l.c., p. 652) is inadequate for
25. CHLOROSTOMA FUNEBRALE, A. Adams. C. testa
turbinata, imperforata, nigra, glabra, longitudinal-
iter oblique striata, ad suturas crenulata, anfractibus
convexiusculis, ultimo rotundato, basi planiusculo,
regione umbilicali valde impressa, callo albo obtecta;
columella superne sinuata, antice bituberculata, tu¬
berculo supremo prominente; labro nigro marginato.
Hab. California. (Mus. Cuming.)
This species is somewhat like C. moestum, Jonas, but
the spiral callus surrounding the umbilicus is not
prominent as in that species.

It is to be stressed that he clearly stated it to be imper¬
forate. CARPENTER (1864) distinguished a variety which
Figure 1: Copy of figure 6, plate 21, Proceedings United
he named subapertum (pp. 627 and 652) :
6. Chlorostoma
States National Museum, volume 15:
21. Chlorostoma funebrale (et var. subapertum. One
funebrale A. Adams, variety subapertum Cpr., basal view
sp.).
of type specimen showing umbilical pit; 30 millimeters,
123496”
77 b. Chlorostoma funebrale, var. subapertum, with
umbilical pit.
a decision as to what constituted a pit in his view, we must
This variety, apparently based on a single shell, may be
rely on DALL’s figure to be indeed the type figure; if we
assumed to be from the "Vancouver district," specifically
assume this to be correct, then an umbilical pit may be
from "Neeah Bay, W. T" (CARPENTER, l. c., pp. 626, 627).
stated to be a shallow but distinct depression in the
What was then the Washington Territory is now the State
umbilical area.
of Washington. From CARPENTER's account, however, it
As indicated previously (STOHLER, 1950), the presence
is not entirely clear where exactly the variant shell came
or absence of an umbilical opening, pit or depression may
from since it was contained in one of many boxes of shells
vary greatly in any given population of certain species of
received from the ardent collector, Swan, who, moreover.
Tégula. Similar results were obtained in a study of popula-
"trained the native children to pick up shore-shells in
tions of Tégula rugosa (A. ADAMS, 1853) (STOHLER,
large quantities."
1963).
