Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 71
THE VELIGER
Distribution and Utilization of Gastropod Shells
by the Hermit Crabs
Pagurus samuelis.
Pagurus granosimanus, and Pagurus hirsutiusculus
at Pacific Grove, California
MELODY BOLLAY
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(6 Text figures; 1 Table)
SEVERAL SPECIES OF Pagurus occur in the rocky intertidal
cheliped very dark brown contrasting with the lighter
zone at Pacific Grove, California. The majority of the
brown of the rest of the leg. In general, both P samuelis
larger hermit crabs are found in shells of Tegula funebralis
and P granosimanus are relatively large, reaching an
(A. ADAMS, 1854), this being the only snail in the area
overall extended length of 6 and 7 cm, respectively, where-
which is both large enough and abundant enough to
as P hirsutiusculus is a smaller species, not frequently
supply the larger pagurids with homes. It therefore ap
exceeding 4 cm in length.
pears that the T funebralis population might be one of
To study the distribution problem, transects were
the factors limiting the hermit crab population. In in¬
taken running seaward from the shore in three different
quiring into the relationship between snail and crab
areas:
tried to determine the following: (1
What species of
Area A. Rocky exposed coast, rich in algal growth.
Pagurus are present, how are these distributed, what
Area B. Large granite outcrop with rough surf and surge,
factors influence this distribution? (2) What shells are
barnacles and mussels predominate.
used by the different species and how does this correlate
Area C. Semi-protected rocky area, rich in algal growth.
with the size and distribution of the T. funebralis popu-
(see WARA, W., & B. WRIGHT, 1964, for detailed
lation?
descriptions and profiles of these areas.)
The hermit crabs collected intertidally at the Hopkins
In each transect, samples were collected at two meter
Marine Station, Pacific Grove were identified using the
intervals, starting at the shore. The first 100 hermit crabs
descriptions in SCHMITT (1921). The following species
seen at each site were taken, or as many as could be
were found: Pagurus samuelis (STIMPSON, 1857), P
found if 100 were not present. Collecting was not done
granosimanus (STIMPSON, 1859), and P hirsutiusculus
at low tide, since at that time the hermit crabs are most
(DANA, 1857). Of the 1873 hermit crabs collected, 50%
difficult to find, being hidden under rocks and in crevices.
were P samuelis, 40% P hirsutiusculus, and only 10%
The hours immediately preceding or following a low
were P granosimanus. Samples included both young and
tide are better, when water covers most areas yet is
adult specimens from each species. The young were identi-
shallow enough to allow collecting. Results are shown
fied by using a series of animals of graded size for each
in Figures 1 and 2.
species, and noting color patterns on both antennae and
Of the three species, Pagurus samuelis was the only
body. Identifying characteristics for the younger hermit
one found at the highest levels in the intertidal, while
crabs are as follows: P samuelis - red antennae and either
both P granosimanus and P hirsutiusculus occupied lower
white or blue bands on the walking legs; P granosimanus
regions, areas usually covered by water. In area C, the
like adult in color; P hirsutiusculus - dark olive-green
P samuelis represent the only hermit crabs found both
antennae striped with white, ambulatory legs striped with
close to shore and at the outer part of the transect
white (never with blue), merus on both large and small
because of a large rock outcropping at the outer margin.
