Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 82
THE VELIGER
THE CALIFORNIA MALACOZOOLOGIGAL SOCIETY, Inc.
Backnumbers of
is a non-profit educational corporation (Articles of In¬
THE VELIGER
corporation No. 463389 were filed January 6, 1964 in
and other publications
the office of the Secretary of State). The Society publishes
Volumes 1 and 2 are out of print
a scientific quarterly, the VELIGER. Donations to the
Volume 3: §.
Volume 4: 85.-
Volume 5: 85.-
Society are used to pay a part of the production costs and
Volume 6: 87.-
thus to keep the subscription rate at a minimum. Donors
Subscription to Volume 7: §7.50 domestic; §7.90 in the
may designate the Fund to which their contribution is
to be credited: Operating Fund (available for current
Americas; 88.10 all other foreign countries.
production) ; Savings Fund (available only for specifiec
Supplement to volume 3: § 3.- plus § -.25 postage
purposes, such as publication of especially long and signi¬
(plus § -.12 sales tax for California residents only)
ficant papers) ; Endowment Fund (the income from
Opisthobranch Mollusks of California
which is available. The principal is irrevocably dedicated
by Prof. Ernst Marcus
to scientific and educational purposes). Unassigned dona¬
Please, note: Back numbers sold in complete volumes only
tions will be used according to greatest need.
with a handling charge of § -.25 on each order; sub-
Contributions to the C. M. S., Inc. are deductible by
scriptions for the current volume accepted until March 15
donors as provided in section 170 of the Internal Revenue
of each year and on a per volume basis only. Send orders
Code (for Federal income tax purposes). Bequests, lega¬
with remittance to:
cies, gifts, devices are deductible for Federal estate and
Mrs. Jean M. Cate, Manager, 12719 San Vicente Boule-
gift tax purposes under section 2055, 2106, and 2522 of
vard, Los Angeles, Calif. 90049. Please, make checks
the Code. The Treasurer of the C. M. S., Inc. will issue
payable to C. M. S., Inc.
suitable receipts which may be used by Donors to substan-
tiate their respective tax deductions.
Shipments of material ordered are generally made within
The Veliger is mailed free to all members of
two weeks after receipt of remittance.
THE CALIFORNIA MALACOZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY, Inc.
Backnumbers of the current volume will be mailed to new
Membership open to all individuals; no institutional
subscribers, as well as to those who renew late, on the
memberships. Dues for the fiscal year 1964/65 (beginning
first working day of the month following receipt of the
July 1): §5.- plus a postage fee of §-40 for members
remittance. The same policy applies to new members.
living in the Americas outside of the U. S. A., and §-.60
for members living in other foreign countries. Please, send
for membership application forms to the Manager
or the Editor.
