Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 72
THE VELIGER
100 87 100 100 94
4
47 97
84 100
XX
00
Pagurus samuelis
—X—

40

Pagurus hirsutiusculus
Pagurus

granosimanus
—
Profile of Area A

ML
—
Sea
Distance from shore (Meters)
Shore
Figure 1: Relative Abundance of Three Pagurus Species
in Area A
Collecting was done on two consecutive days, May 8 and 9, 1963, the first sunny and the second overcast, from 6:15
a. m. to 10:00 a. m. and from 7:00 a. m. to 10:30 a. m. respectively. This was from the low tide until it became
too rough to collect. No sample size
The P hirsutiusculus and the P granosimanus are again
Pagurus samuelis was found up to a height of about
concentrated in the deeper lying regions, which this
4 feet but in far fewer numbers, sample sizes at each
collecting station averaging 10.1 for this transect as a
time are in the center of the transect. As shown by the
whole. Of the 97 Pagurus collected, only 44.3% were P
sample size (N) there were far fewer hermit crabs at
the higher sites along the transect, all that were found
samuelis, 55.7% were P hirsutiusculus.
Since the differences in distribution might reflect dif¬
being taken, whereas in the lower areas there was no
difficulty in finding 100 for the sample.
ferences in ability to withstand the effects of exposure, an
experiment was conducted to see if there was any differ-
What can be seen intuitively in these first two graphs
that the three species are probably distributed dif¬
ence in the survival between the three species when
ferentially with respect to height — is clearly illustrated
exposed out of water in daylight. The bottoms of three
plastic dishpans were covered with dry sand. Each pan
in Figure 3, in which the data from areas A and C are
received 30 hermit crabs of one species. The Pagurus
combined and species distribution is plotted against verti¬
cal position in the intertidal. Above 1.2 m only Pagurus
samuelis and P granosimanus used were all large adult
samuelis is found, while this species represents over 50%
specimens. The P hirsutiusculus, while adults, were
of all the hermit crabs found at 0.6 m. With increasing
necessarily smaller. The data are shown in Figure 4.
depth the proportion of P samuelis declines while that of
From this test it appears that P hirsutiusculus and P
both P granosimanus and P hirsutiusculus increases.
granosimanus are less able to survive exposure than P
samuelis; the smaller individuals died sooner on exposure
The data from area B (not shown) confirm these
findings, but in this transect Pagurus granosimanus was
out of water than the larger ones. Although more ex-
entirely absent; however, P hirsutiusculus was found at
periments would be desirable, these results suggest that
the lowest extremity of this steep transect and in approxi¬
differences in the ability to withstand exposure help to
matcly the same numbers as in the other two areas.
explain the differences in distribution of the three species.
