Page 79
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
In the collection of the Department of Zoology of the
Table 3
University of California in Berkeley there is a number of
Population of Tegula funebralis from West of Canada
small lots of Tegula funebralis from the shore of the
Tecelate, Santa Rosa Island, Santa Barbara County
Eastern Pacific extending from Lower California to the
(Measurements in millimeters)
northern border of California. A total of 596 shells was
examined for the presence or absence of an umbilical pit.
flat shallow
deep
This examination revealed that T. funebralis is indeed im
36.1
41.2
35.5
height
perforate exactly as ADAMS stated, for not a single speci¬
largest
30.7
width
31.4
31.0
men in the 55 lots studied had an open umbilicus
173
height
11.2
11.0
However, it was also noted that a deep umbilical pit
smallest
20.8
width
11.8
13.4
could be observed in many lots regardless of the place of
origin (see Table 1) ; this was true for 13 of the 55 lots
examined; a shallower pit was seen in 47 of the 55 lots,
collection, having a deep umbilical pit, is from Rio
all of the previously mentioned 13 lots also containing such
Guadalupe, Baja California, Mexico, and measures 17.0
specimens. On the other hand, only 7 of these lots showed
mm in diameter. It is perhaps worth noting that the pro-
a complete absence of specimens with an entirely flat
portion of shells with a deep umbilical pit to the total
umbilical area.
population is fairly constant, i.e. 4%, while "flat" and
It is my impression that had larger samples been taken
"shallow" vary from approximately 85:10 (at Point
in all localities the three types of umbilical areas (i. e
Buchon) to 52:42 (at Canada Tecelate). The percentage
deep pit, shallow pit, and smooth area) would have been
of shells with the deep pit seems to remain fairly constant
found to be more evenly distributed. Unfortunately, at the
in all populations, that is if we may make this deduction
time these collections were made the problem of the
based on the two larger samples just discussed, either
umbilical area was not considered and usually only very
separately or together, or basing the assumption on the
small samples were retained as indicators of the presence
total figures of all samples studied.
of Tegula funebralis in a particular locality. Through the
Two other observations were made during this partic-
generous cooperation of Mr. Glen Bickford from the
ular study. The first one is that the sculpture of the whorls
California Department of Fish and Game I have been
is fairly constant throughout the range of distribution of
able to examine two larger lots, one from the mainland
the species; the "aureotincta" sculpture, as discussed in
shore in San Luis Obispo County and one from Santa
connection with Tegula brunnea (PHILIPPI, 1848) (STOH-
Rosa Island. These two lots I considered large enough for
LER, 1958) and T rugosa (STOHLER, 1963) has not been
taking some measurements (see Tables 2 and 3). Measure-
seen in any specimen; not even the faintest indication of
such a sculpture has been noticed, although I paid special
Table 2
attention to this feature of the shell.
Population of Tegula funebralis from about ½ mile North
of Point Buchon, San Luis Obispo County
(Measurements in millimeters)
flat shallow deep
height
31.4
26.5
25.9
largest
width
31.7
27.4
4.5
height
12.9
21.5
smallest
width
6.1 15.4 23.5
ments of height in T funebralis cannot be considered
significant, generally speaking, because of the varying
degrees of corrosion. More reliance may be put on the
largest diameter of the shell.
Scanning Tables 2 and 3 one must gain the impression
Figure 2: Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1855).
that a deep umbilical pit is limited to large (that is, older)
Duxbury Point, Marin County, California. Oct. 30, 1947.
shells. But studying the smaller lots in the collection this
Lateral aspect. ex Coll. Dept. Zool., Univ. Calif., Berkeley.
impression is dissipated. The smallest specimen in the
(X 1)
