Page 80
Vol. 6; Supplement
THE VELIGER
ecological conditions similar to those at Duxbury Reef
The second observation is, however, of a more positive
nature. At Duxbury Reef in Marin County a large pro-
seem to prevail. On the other hand, in general collections
of Tegula funebralis, covering wide ranges of its distri-
portion of the Tegula funebralis shells encountered are
bution, such as are housed in the California Academy of
Sciences in San Francisco, these large, high specimens can
be readily picked out; when the museum label is examined
it is found to read "Baulinas," "Bolinas" or "Duxbury.
all three being, to some collector or other, the same spot.

Figure 3: Same shell as shown in Figure 2.
Ventral aspect. ex Coll. Dept. Zool., Univ. Calif., Berkeley.
(X 1)

unusually high (Figures 2, 3) ; rough estimates made in
the field vary slightly, depending on certain closely cir-
Figure 5: Same shell as shown in Figure 4.
cumscribed areas scrutinized. In the sandy areas, devoid
Ventral aspect. ex Coll. Dept. Zool., Univ. Calif., Berkeley.
of all rocks, no T funebralis are encountered, except very
(X 1)
rarely a stray specimen ploughing through the sand on its
way from one rocky area to another one. In areas with
For the same reason as given in our previous papers,
small rocks up to the size of a large fist, Tegulas abound
cited above, we do not consider the variety subapertum
to be taxonomically valid; it is merely a variant, perhaps
and here the proportion of the high forms is estimated
at the end of the range of variability for the particular
at about 40% of the total number; these rocky areas are
bounded by large rocks forming actual reefs; Tegulas
character, but still one that is difficult to define exactly
since what is a “depression" in the umbilical area must
inhabiting this particular environment seem to comprise a
remain open to a very subjective appraisal by the observer.
larger percentage of high shells, probably as many as
On the other hand, a decision whether the Duxbury
75% or even more being of the type shown in Figure 2.
variant should be considered a taxonomically valid sub¬
The other members of these various Tegula populations
species must be deferred, I think, until breeding experi¬
conform to the more usual shape pattern (see Figures 2
ments can be conducted to ascertain whether this is a
and 5).
heritable character, unaffected by environmental factors,
It seems plausible that these high forms represent an
or a character influenced only by some as yet unrecognized
ecological variant, although I have not seen similar shells
in any other collecting station along the coast of California
environmental condition.
and Lower California, even though in one or two places
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The illustrations reproduced here are the product of the
fine artistic skill of Mrs. Emily Reid, Staff Artist in the
Department of Zoology. I also wish to express my appreci-
ation to Mr. Glen Bickford, not only for his generous

donation of the shells discussed here, but also for many

other sizable lots and numerous important data, which, it
is hoped, will be used in a forthcoming study.
LITERATURE CITED
Figure 4: Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1855).
ADAMS, ARTHUR
Mission Point, Carmel, Monterey County, California.
1855. Descriptions of twenty-seven new species of shells from
November 13, 1947.
the collection of Hugh Cuming, Esq.
Proc. Zool. Soc. Lon¬
Lateral aspect. ex Coll. Dept. Zool., Univ. Calif., Berkeley.
don 22: 311 -317
(8 May 1855)
(X 1)
