THE VELIGER is open to original papers pertaining to any problem
concerned with mollusks.
This is meant to make facilities available for publication of original
articles from a wide field of endeavor. Papers dealing with anatomical,
cytological, distributional, ecological, histological, morphological, phys¬
iological, taxonomic, etc., aspects of marine, freshwater or terrestrial
mollusks from any region, will be considered. Even topics only indi-
rectly concerned with mollusks may be acceptable. In the unlikely event
that space considerations make limitations necessary, papers dealing
with mollusks from the Pacific region will be given priority. However,
in this case the term "Pacific region" is to be most liberally interpreted.
It is the editorial policy to preserve the individualistic writing style of
the author; therefore any editorial changes in a manuscript will be sub-
mitted to the author for his approval, before going to press.
Short articles containing descriptions of new species or lesser taxa will
be given preferential treatment in the speed of publication provided
that arrangements have been made by the author for depositing the
holotype with a recognized public Museum. Museum numbers of the
type specimens must be included in the manuscript. Type localities
must be defined as accurately as possible, with geographical longitudes
and latitudes added.
Short original papers, not exceeding 500 words, will be published in
the column "NOTES & NEWS"; in this column will also appear notices
of meetings of the American Malacological Union, as well as news items
which are deemed of interest to our subscribers in general. Articles on
"METHODS & TECHNIQUES" will be considered for publication in
another column, provided that the information is complete and tech-
niques and methods are capable of duplication by anyone carefully fol¬
lowing the description given. Such articles should be mainly original
and deal with collecting, preparing, maintaining, studying, photo¬
graphing, etc., of mollusks or other invertebrates. A third column, en-
titled"INFORMATION DESK," will contain articles dealing with any
problem pertaining to collecting, identifying, etc., in short, problems
encountered by our readers. In contrast to other contributions, articles
in this column do not necessarily contain new and original materials.
Questions to the editor, which can be answered in this column, are in-
vited. The column "BOOKS, PERIODICALS, PAMPHLETS" will
attempt to bring reviews of new publications to the attention of our
readers. Also, new timely articles may be listed by title only, if this is
deemed expedient.
Manuscripts should be typed in final form on a high grade white
paper, 8½2" by 11", double spaced and accompanied by a carbon copy.
