Fig. 1A.
Schematic representation of venom apparatus in C. californicus. This
figure, which is not to scale, shows the main parts of the venom apparatus
including the siphon, proboscis, muscular bulb, venom duct and radula
sac.
Fig. 1B.
Complete venom apparatus as it looks in a snail . The venom duct
changes color at about the same region it would in a live snail.
Fig. 1C.
Venom duct and radula sac connection to proboscis, showing that the
venom duct enters posterior to the radula sac
Abbreviations: es, esophagus; m, mouth; mb, muscular bulb; nr, nerve ring; p, proboscis;
rs, radula sac; sg, salivary gland; sgd, salivary gland duct; t, radula teeth.
Fig. 2
Micrographs of cross sections through the venom duct from the regions
indicated in panel C. Schematic representations, not to scale of two of the
regions are shown in panel 2A1 and 2B1. Scale bar is 50u throughout.
Fig. 2A.
Posterior or muscular bulb end of the venom duct, showing inner epithelial
cells surrounding a central lumen that contains some granules
Mid-region of venom duct after color change. Inner epithelial cells are
Fig. 2B.
larger and packed with granules. The central lumen also has more
granules.
Fig. 2C.
Diagram illustrating the different levels of the venom duct analyzed.
Fig. 2D.
Venom duct as it approaches the proboscis. Cells with larger basal nuclei
appear. Discrete bundles of granules can be seen in the inner epithelial
cells. Blue granules are localized in cells at the top; clear granules are in
cells at the bottom-left.
Fig. 3.
Longitudinal sections through the venom duct as in the proboscis wall.
Scale bars are 50u throughout.
Fig. 3A
Venom duct as it starts to enter proboscis wall. The purple cells first
appear here.
Fig. 3B.
Magnified view of A.
Fig. 3C.
The venom duct is pushing through proboscis wall with the purple cells
lining passage.
Fig. 3D.
Venom granules in channel in the proboscis wall. A narrow passage for
venom from the duct to enter into the proboscis is seen here.
Fig. 3E. & F
Two views of the channel branching. 3E shows the branches disappearing
on the right. The large layer of purple cells surround the central channel is
shown. 3E also shows that the blue granules which are seen before the
branching seem to disappear, but the clear granules continue.
Fig. 4.
Longitudinal sections through the venom duct crossing the proboscis wall
and entering proboscis lumen. Scale bar is 50u throughout.
Overall view of venom duct crossing the proboscis. The whole proboscis
Fig. 4A.
wall is shown.
Magnified view of channel exiting proboscis wall into proboscis lumen
Fig. 4B.
There are two exit channels visible. The proboscis lumen epithelium
merges with the venom duct epithelium in this region.
