Fig. 4C.
Fig. 5.
Fig. 5A & B.
Fig. 5C&D
Fig. 5E& F.
Fig. 6.
Fig. 6A.
Fig. 6B.
Fig. 6C.
Fig. 7.
Fig. 8.
Schematic diagram of how the venom duct crosses the proboscis. Not to
scale.
Teeth in the radula sac. Three different views of teeth in the radula sac are
shown. Each panel on the right is a magnified image of the panel of the
left. Scale bar is 50u throughout.
Teeth entering proboscis wall from radula sac. The teeth are all pointing
towards the proboscis lumen and are all filled with material.
Comparison of radula sac content with tooth content. The basal opening
can be seen on two teeth in the short arm of the radula sac. Material inside
and outside teeth appears very similar
Blue granules in clusters can be seen in the radula sac wall and individual
granules can be seen in the tooth. These granules look similar to those
found in the venom duct, (see Fig. 2).
Teeth from different parts of the radula sac. Line drawing shows
approximately where teeth were taken from. Scale bar on all is 50u.
Living tooth taken from the short arm of the radula sac. It is more fully
developed, larger, and the lumen is packed with granular material in it.
Tooth from long arm fixed in gluteraldehyde, placed into agar to hold it,
embedded in Spurs resin, and stained with metheylene blue. The ligament
can be seen off the basal end. The lumen is not as full of material.
Living immature tooth from extreme end of long arm. The ligament sac is
coming off right end. The tooth is not fully developed.
Results of the tooth venom and venom duct extract experiments. The tot
panels shows the effect on a inward current, the middle panels shows the
effect on an outward currents and the bottom panels show the voltage
applied. The tooth venom experiment (panel A), showing that 0.002 tooth
units inhibits the sodium channel. The venom duct extracts (panel B)
show similar effects. The temperature of each experiment is indicated at
the bottom.
Results from the reflectron MALDI MS. Intensity is along the y-axis and
mass per charge is along the x-axis. Marked peaks of indicated molecular
weight are the same peptide in different samples. The sample locations
are shown at right.
