Felton 13
Superoxide Dismutase:
The activity level of superoxide dismutase is extremely variable from mussel to mussel,
even within a single time point, from a single bed. It therefore appears to be no ranking of
mussel beds, and no change over time (Figs. 4 and 5). Rather, the four beds appear to be part of
a single population, despite the predicted differences in factors we might otherwise expect to
drive differences in the activities of this enzyme. This may be an artifact of the inherent
variability of the assay, or an accurate reflection of true variation. In order to determine this, it is
necessary to quantify the inherent variation in SÖD. To approach this question, a large sample
of mussels should be brought into the lab and held under common garden conditions for 4 weeks
to acclimate before assaying SOD activity.
Of further interest is the cause of the variation between mussels. It is unclear whether my
assumption that a relationship between temperature and enzyme amounts is unsound, or whether
in this case, enzyme concentration is a poor proxy for enzyme activity. Assuming the
relationship is sound, the inter-mussel variation may be driven by variation in the phenotypic
plasticity of individual mussels (Helmuth et al. 2010), or by inherent differences in ability to
handle ROS (genetic differences) (Roberts et al. 1997). It is also possible that the variability is
simply the steady state for each mussel, and at no time during the sampling where mussels
stressed to a level high enough to trigger an RÖS detoxification response.
Existing studies on the effect in vivo exposure to high temperatures on the in vitro
activity levels of SOD is limited. Studies in soybean seeds suggest that a departure of 25°C from
optimal temperature is necessary to insight a detectable detoxification response that led to
increased survivorship and successful germination (Posmyk et al. 2001). Studies in the Antarctic
limpet Nacellla concinna suggest that an increase of even 9°C above 0°C is sufficient to drive
