flourishes in the cold, seasonally variable waters of the North Pacific, and commonly is found in
estuaries and other locations with lower, fluctuating salinity. Yet, the invasive species continues
to move up the coast to cooler waters. Physiologically, its success can be attributed its ability to
grow much larger than the native, but it appears to have other competitive advantages as well. It
has been shown to suffer less snail predation, parasite loads, and lower mortality rates in Europe
(Geller 1999). It has even been known to climb over and smother the other native Californian
mussel, M. californianus (Geller 1999).
Mytilus galloprovincialis appears to possess an ideal set of behavioral and physiological
characters that promote a successful invasion. These adaptations and, essentially, survival
mechanisms are critical in coping with environmental conditions. Aggregation behavior in
mussels is one of the most often-cited responses to both abiotic and biotic obstacles. Past studies
involving a closely related blue mussel species, M. edulis, have discussed clumping behavior at
length. Topics include the presence of small groups within a larger matrix of mussels, the
negative correlation between growth of an individual and clump size, and the attractive pull by
other mussels (Okamura 1986; de Vooys 2003). Studies have also been conducted on mixed
mussel beds involving invasive M. galloprovincialis. Within a hybrid zone in Southwest
England, M. edulis in the presence of M. galloprovincialis exhibited weaker byssal thread
attachments and a tendency to move to the edge of an aggregation (Schneider et al. 2005). In
South Africa, the native mussel Perna perna showed less movement and increased clumping in
the presence of a predatory lobster, whereas the invasive M. galloprovincialis did not (Nicastro
et al. 2007).
Predators exert considerable pressures on marine organisms, influencing dispersion,
aggregation, and density. In a previous study, Leonard et al. (1999) showed an inverse
