1. Introduction
Marine environments are hot spots for invasion, interconnected not only geographically
but also anthropogenically through travel and trade. Larval forms are brought in ships' ballast
water, exotics are released from aquaria, and commercial aquaculture experiences the occasional
escapee. As exotic species increase, they invariably affect the natives housed in a particular
coastal environment. Marine invertebrates present a particularly interesting case in that they
provide a vital food source for many other organisms, including larger vertebrates. While in
many cases humans find related species hard to distinguish, differences in physiology and
behavior can act to the detriment of other species. According to Geller et al. (1994), 367 species
of marine invertebrates and plants are regularly brought from Japan to the west coast of the
United States, often with a substantial amount of Mytilus mussel larvae in the ballast water. The
Californian coast experiences introductions on a regular basis, including a species of blue
mussel, Mytilus galloprovincialis.
Mytilus species are often the most abundant intertidal invertebrate and play a pivotal role
in the ecosystem (Braby and Somero 2006). Three species of mytilid mussels inhabit the coast of
California, Mytilus californianus (a ribbed mussel), M. trossulus (native blue mussel), and M.
galloprovincialis. Since the 1940's, when the first introduction of M. galloprovincialis is
suspected to have occurred, the geographic range of M. trossulus has declined substantially
(Geller 1999). Mytilus galloprovincialis has successfully invaded many new locations globally
and has subsequently developed several hybrid zones with M. trossulus in the North Pacific,
including Japan, Washington, and central California (Braby and Somero 2006). In these zones,
M. galloprovincialis tends to dominate in areas of warmer water and more constant salinity,
harkening back to its Mediterranean ancestry. On the other hand, the native M. trossulus
