The aggregation experiments consisted of several combinations of the different species of
mussels as well as a single species trial. For the two-species trials, ten individuals of each species
were randomly assigned to one of five 5.7-L containers (Holiday Housewares, Inc; Visuals"M
Deluxe Clear Storage), each with nine holes (approximate diameter of 1 cm) drilled into either
side to facilitate water flow. I placed individuals onto a four by five square grid marked on the
bottom of the container, alternating species by square. I also ran a trial with two of the containers
containing only M. trossulus, two containing only M. californianus, and one a mix of the two
species set up in the same manner as the other mixed species trials. Situated in a running
seawater table, the containers were provided with a constant supply of fresh, filtered sea-water.
I mapped the position of each mussel daily for five days, taking careful note of which
mussels touched which. For the purpose of analysis, I recorded how many individuals of each
species every individual mussel touched. In theory, from the point of view of the mussel, if a
particular species of mussel has no preference of aggregation partners, then it will be touching an
equal number of each species. I also documented the clump-size distribution. A clump was
defined as a cluster of two or more mussels in which each mussel was touching at least one other
mussel in the cluster (Côté and Jelnikar 1999).
2.3. Predator-Influenced Aggregation Experiment
The second set of experiments looked at aggregation in the presence of a predator. The
set-up used five 4.5-L containers (Rubbermaid“ Serve n SaverrM) with the same four by five
square grid. Three experimental units had fresh sea water running into the top right corner of the
container from a two-compartment tank filled with 30 individuals of N. emarginata (Fig. 1). A
procedural control had a constant supply of water running through an identical, but empty tank.
The control simply had a small hose running into the center of the container and supplying fresh
