relationship between growth rate and shell thickness of M. edulis. In the presence of a predatory
crab, the mussel shells either grew large and thin or small and thick. In addition the strength of
byssal thread attachment increased. Furthermore, mussels stationed in the center of an
aggregation suffered lower mortality; however, they also experienced reduced growth and
reproductive output (Côté and Jelnikar 1999). Although larger clumps decrease the likelihood of
predation, a tradeoff with fitness exists.
Mytilus species along the Californian coast experience predation pressures from many
species, particularly from seastars (Pisaster spp.) and whelks (Nucella spp.). Nucella abundance,
in particular, has been cited as a key factor in determining M. trossulus distributions within the
intertidal zone (Noda 1999). West (1986) demonstrated a level of individual prey selection
among Nucella when provided a choice between a variety of prey including barnacles and
mussels. This study showed that selection does not reflect abundance of the prey, but is
potentially related to ingestive conditioning. Further studies of Nucella focused on the location-
specific preference for Mytilus species (Sanford et al. 2003). Because Nucella lack a dispersal
planktonic stage, populations are relatively isolated and have had time to diverge in prey choice.
Californian whelks were substantially more likely to drill M. californianus than either the whelks
from Oregon or Washington, even when raised under identical circumstances. Findings such as
these lead to questions about prey choice between closely related invasive and native species.
They also point to potential implications for the associated ecosystem. Particularly in the central
California hybrid zone of M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis, the interaction of these mussels
both in relation to aggregation and predators is noteworthy.
This study addresses three questions related to aggregation behavior and predation
pressures. It seeks to investigate the influence of M. californianus and M. galloprovincialis on
