Abstract
Invasive species have become an important concern for marine ecosystem function and
conservation. Many studies have shown the negative effects of an exotic species on native
species through increased competition or other behavioral changes. My study examined three
mussels of the genus Mytilus found along the central coast of California, each with a unique life
history and ecological characteristics. M. californianus, the ribbed mussel, is a native species that
forms dense beds in rocky intertidal habitats; the native blue mussel, M. trossulus, and the
invasive blue mussel, M. galloprovincialis, are found in bays and estuaries. Mytilus
galloprovincialis, which entered California waters some time in the middle of the 20" century,
has replaced the native blue mussel from Southern California up to the latitude of Monterey Bay,
where both blue mussels co-occur. I sought to determine how the three congeners differed (1) in
aggregation behavior, which can influence growth and reproductive output; and (ii) vulnerability
to predatory whelks of the genus Nucella. Aggregation behavior was compared in the absence
and presence of whelks. Clumping behavior was analyzed to identify species preferences in
neighboring mussels. All aggregations in whelk-free seawater, except for M. galloprovincialis
when grouped with M. californianus, showed significant preference for mixed species
assemblages. Under predation-pressure conditions, none of the mussels in combination with M.
trossulus demonstrated a significant preference for a specific neighbor in the aggregation. The
presence of whelks also yielded slightly larger aggregation sizes. To extend the predation portion
of this experiment, two species of predatory whelk, Nucella emarginata and Nucella ostrina,
were given the choice between the native and invasive blue mussels. Nucella ostrina
demonstrated a preference for the native mussel but N. emarginata did not, suggesting that native
predators could potentially feed upon and thereby contribute to the regulation of the invasive
