of oxygenated water every twelve hours or less, so smaller glycogen stores may be sufficient to
sustain them during hypoxic period at low tide.
Different time-courses of hypoxia may also explain the failure to detect ethanol in G.
mirabilis tissues. An ethanol-producing metabolic pathway appears in carp and goldfish to
prevent acidotic buildup from lactic acied during very long periods of hypoxia (Johnston and
Bernard, 1983). The absence of ethanol-producing pathways in G. mirabilis may indicate, in
part, that acid accumulation is less of a problem over twelve-hour periods than over longer
exposures. Gillichthys mirabilis, both in metabolic pathway strategies and in glycogen
concentrations, appear to lie on a gradient dictated by the severity of hypoxia found in the natural
environment.
Certain features of the G. mirabilis biochemistry, however, are in contrast to this apparent
trend. Glycogen in white muscle, for instance, was remarkably lower than in most vertebrates,
including both anoxia-tolerant and anoxia-sensitive species. It remained at a constant mean of O.3
mg/g, an order of magnitude smaller than in goldfish (Thillart et al., 1980) and two orders of
magnitude smaller than in humans (Hultman, 1967). Such low white muscle glycogen may be
due to the limited capacity of G. mirabilis for intense "burst" locomotion (personal observation).
A second contrast to other hypoxia-tolerant species is the consistent accumulation of lactate in G.
mirabilis. Normoxia-acclimated goldfish show no significant lactate accumulation under hypoxia
in white muscle or red muscle, but show three-fold increases in liver (Thillart et al., 1980). In G.
mirabilis, on the other hand, lactate accumulated in all tissues, with brain lactate consistently
highest and liver lactate consistently lowest. High lactate concentrations in the brain indicate a
high mass-specific metabolic rate, which is typical of vertebrate brain tissue, but the low lactate
concentrations in the liver are surprising because vertebrate livers normally have high mass-
specific metabolic rates (Hulbert and Else, 1981). This difference may indicate that the liver
enters metabolic arrest during hypoxia, suppressing certain functions that normally consume so
much energy. Indeed, goldfish have been shown to arrest protein synthesis in the liver during
anoxia (Smith et al., 1996). Alternatively, the low lactate levels in liver could be due to the
liver's role in removing lactate from the blood stream. The liver could produce lactate and
subsequently process it, thereby containing low lactate levels but nonetheless conducting
