muscle glycogen was consistent throughout the time-course. The observed decrease in brain
glycogen was nearly significant (pS.053) at seventy-two hours, hinting at a pattern, but not
significant enough to draw any conclusions.
Discussion
The 1.0 mg O/L Pait that I observed in G. mirabilis is not surprising given gobiid fishes
capacity for hypoxia tolerance. Critical oxygen concentrations of 0.6 mg/L, for example, have
been observed in gobies of the genus Typhlogobius. Interestingly, however, the Pent values
observed in my study are on the low end of previously measured Pert in G. mirabilis, which range
from 1.0-1.5 mg/L (Congleton, 1974). This may indicate that the G. mirabilis from my
experimental population are more tolerant of hypoxia than most populations of the species. In a
broader sense, the Pent values are informative in comparison to values from other organisms and
to the oxygen concentrations found in most marine habitats. The oxygen concentration in surface
seawater ranges from 8.1 mg/L to 9.5 mg/L (Yang et al., 1992). The Pet of yellowfin tuna, a
highly aerobic pelagic fish, is 4-5 mg/L (Barbara Block, personal correspondence). Even
Scorpaena guttata, a benthic fish that lives at 180m where oxygen concentration is one third of
surface sea water, has a Pent of 3.0 mg/L (Yang et al., 1992). One of S. guttata's confamilials
(Sebastolobus alascanus), however, lives in the oxygen minimum zone and has a Pert equivalent
to that of G. mirabilis (Yang et al., 1992). Thus G. mirabilis has developed a physiology which
facilitates life under hypoxic stress of similar intensity to that of the oxygen minimum zone.
The glycogen levels that I found in G. mirabilis, especially those in the liver, shed
important light on the G. mirabilis strategy for hypoxia tolerance. Glycogen levels changed
significantly only in the liver, where large initial stores underwent a twelve-fold depletion by
eight hours of hypoxia. Lactate, however, accumulated in all four organs, indicating that
glycolysis proceeded according to each tissue's energy demand. Moreover, lactate levels were
the lowest in liver, indicating that the glucose formed by breakdown of glycogen was not being
consumed there, but was transported from the liver to other tissues. Lactate levels were highest in
