one day in this new setting, we sacrificed one of the four sets of fish and reduced the oxygen
concentration in the tank to 0.8 mg/L, 80% of their Perit. The remaining three sets of fish were
sacrificed after 8, 24 and 72 hours of hypoxia. Data for this exposure are shown in figure 1.
We sacraficed the fish by freeze-clamping them in liquid nitrogen to immediately
preserve their tissues and prevent both post-mortem enzyme activity and metabolite breakdown.
We transferred the frozen fish to storage at -80°C until removing them for dissection. During the
dissections, we kept the fish on dry ice, allowing us to perform separate dissections and return the
fish to storage without disturbing their endogenous enzyme integrity by freezing and thawing
their tissue. This technique allowed us to remove white muscle at one sitting (-400mg), and liver
(100mg), heart (-40mg) and brain (-20mg) at the next. We parceled these tissues into two sets,
one for endpoint-assays (this paper), another for enzyme activity assays (see data from Joshua
Troll, this volume). I placed tissues for endpoint assays immediately in 0.6 N perchloric acid (5
ul/mg tissue) to arrest endogenous enzyme activity. I then homogenized these mixtures with an
Ultraturax?.
For the four tissues mentioned above, I assayed for glycogen according to the method of
Keppler and Decker (1969). Two aliquots of homogenate from each tissue of each fish were
neutralized to protect assay enzymes from deproteinization. To one of these, I added 250 ul of
11.0 units/ml amyloglucosidase solution in 0.2 M acetate buffer (pH 4.8) to hydrolyze the tissue's
glycogen into glucose. The other aliquot (with 250 ul acetate) served as a blank of free glucose
against which glycogen data could be compared. After digestion, I centrifuged the samples and
used three 20 ul aliquots of supernatant for triplicate assays. I added these samples to 100 ul of
reaction mixture (1 mM ATP; 0.9 mM B-NADP ; 5 ug glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase/ml.),
and measured their change in absorbance before and after reaction with hexokinase. Absorbances
were measured at 340 nm on a SpectraMax 340c 96-well spectrophotometer using SOFTMAX¬
PRO software, all manufactured by Molecular Devices. The absorbances from triplicate wells
were averaged to obtain a value for a single tissue, and actual glucose concentration values were
derived using the numerical analysis detailed in Keppler and Decker (1975)
I assayed for l-lactic acid and ethanol using the methods and industrial kits provided by
Boehringer Mannheim (Cat. Nos. 139084 and 176290). For each assay, I added three 20 ul
