aliquots of neutralized homogenate solution to wells containing 100 ul reaction solution
(provided by the Boehringer Mannheim kits). To develop a standard curve for absorption change
versus lactate or ethanol concentration, I also added aliquots of lactate and ethanol standard
solution (of 9.7 mg/L, 29.1 mg/L, and 48.5 mg/L for lactate; 4.5 mg/L, 13.5 mg/L, 22.5 mg/L for
ethanol). I then measured the absorbance of these solutions before and after reaction with lactate
dehydrogenase and alcohol dehydrogenase, respectively. The method for these measurements is
described above in the glycogen assay.
-Results
Oxygen consumption rate data as a function of oxygen concentration for three fish are
shown in figure 1. This graph provides information both on the amount of oxygen that
Gillichthys mirabilis consume as well as the critical oxygen concentration below which they
begin to lose their ability to draw oxygen from their surroundings (Perit). Pent is thus measured as
the oxygen concentration below which oxygen consumption rate consistently declines. The Perit
for all three experimental fish was near 1.0 mg/L, and was independent of body mass.
No ethanol was discernable in any of the four tissues. Ethanol is a volatile compound,
and if present in small quantities in the tissues, may not survive in substantial quantities
throughout the homogenizations and dilutions in the assay. The data, however, are clearly
negative and rule out the existence of large ethanol concentrations in any of the tissues.
Figures 3-6 show the effects of hypoxia on both glycogen and lactate concentration in
each tissue. In all four tissues, lactate rose significantly after 8 hours of hypoxia (figure 7)
(pS.001), and in liver and heart it rose again by 72 hours (pS.001). Each tissue’s increase in
lactate is generally correlated with initial lactate levels, which were consistently highest in the
brain and lowest in the liver (pS.005).
Significant changes in glycogen concentration appeared only in liver (pS.001), which had
a comparatively large initial store of glycogen that was almost completely depleted by 8 hours.
The liver’s mean initial glycogen store (6.87 mg/g) was four times the store in the next highest
tissue, heart (1.68 mg/g) and twenty-four times that in white muscle (0.29 mg/g). This low white
