first place to turn, of course, is to the regulation of metabolites, since any change in metabolic
strategy should alter both the use of energy stores and the quantity and form of waste products.
Metabolic substrates and end-products can be used as markers for the "black box" of overall
metabolic strategy. The most obvious of these markers are glycogen and lactate, because
glycogen is the primary energy-storage molecule in vertebrates and the lactic-acid-producing
metabolic pathway, glycolysis, is the most common of anaerobic strategies. There are of course,
numerous exceptions to this. Goldfish, for instance, which experience very long periods of
hypoxia, employ a metabolic pathway that produces ethanol, which is then excreted as waste
(Johnston and Bernard, 1982). Organisms may also deplete energy stores other than glycogen,
such as fatty acids or proteins. Alternatively, they may maintain a high constitutive anaerobic
throughput, and thus display little change in anaerobic metabolism during hypoxia. Nonetheless
glycogen and lactate are invaluable markers that can help elucidate the overall metabolic strategy
that Gillichthys mirabilis use to survive their hypoxic slough.
Materials and Methods
I conducted all experiments in collaboration with a colleague, Joshua Troll, who used the
same test population and tissues for assays on glycolytic enzyme activity. Gillichthys mirabilis
were collected from a lagoon at the University of California Santa Barbara and acclimated to
14°C for several months. On three separate occasions after their acclimation, we placed
individual fish in a sealed tank coupled to an oxygen electrode to measure the fish's rate of
oxygen uptake versus available oxygen concentration. These data are shown in figure 1 and were
used to determine the Pert of our stock of fish (the oxygen concentration below which an
organism's oxygen consumption rate begins to decline). We found the Pent to be approximately
1.0 mg/L, and designed the remainder of our experiments appropriately.
We placed four sets of seven fish (3.5g-19.25g) in aerated Tupper-Ware"" containers in a
tank liked to a nitrogen-gas hypoxia setup. Containers were used to facilitate sacrificing the fish
without causing any substantial handling stress which might alter the fish's metabolic state. Äfter
