the brain and heart, neither of which depleted their own glycogen, indicating that they were
receiving energy input from another source. These data argue that, in response to hypoxia, G.
mirabilis may mobilize energy stores in the liver and shuttle glucose to support the energy
demands of other tissues. These fish may thus be integrating each tissue's energy resources and
demands in response to their systemic hypoxic stress.
This strategy contrasts with anaerobic systems in other organisms. Although goldfish, for
example, deplete their liver glycogen and maintain white muscle stores in response to anoxia
(Thillart et al., 1980), they also deplete between 75 and 95% of their brain glycogen within two
hours of exposure to anoxia (Schmidt and Wegner, 1988). This strategy is primarily in response
to anoxia, however, and it is possible that G. mirabilis conserve their brain glycogen until the last
moment or mobilize it under more severe hypoxia. Moreover, G. mirabilis does not tolerate
anoxia to the same degree as goldfish, and anoxia-tolerance may entail a mechanism distinct from
hypoxia-tolerance and thus be irrelevant in comparison to G. mirabilis.
Another interesting contrast to other organisms' physiology is the size of G. mirabilis's
glycogen stores. The initial stores of glycogen in the liver (6.87 + 1.46 mg/g) are larger than in
most vertebrates. Human livers typically have 0.1-1.0 mg/g glycogen (Johnson and Fusaro, 1966;
Lee and Whelan, 1966). Kepler and Decker (1969), who developed the glycogen assay employed
in this study, found rat liver glycogen at 0.55 +0.1 mg/g. Glycogen levels in some other
hypoxia-tolerant vertebrates, however, are much larger than those observed in this study.
Glycogen makes up 30% of the crucian carp liver (300 mg/g), and the freshwater turtle has liver
glycogen 25 times the quantities observed here (Lutz and Nilsson, 1997). Moreover, although the
glycogen levels found here in the G. mirabilis brain (1.15 +0.11 mg/g) are 3-fold larger than in
rat, mouse and rainbow trout, they are nonetheless 2-3-fold smaller than in the crucian carp,
goldfish, and freshwater turtle (Lutz and Nilsson, 1994). This difference between G. mirabilis and
the carp and turtle may be due to the types of hypoxia that each organism encounters in its natural
environment. Carp and freshwater turtles are accustomed to longer durations of hypoxia (weeks
to months), and may thus need to mobilize greater glycogen stores between opportunities for
gluconeogenesis. Gillichthys mirabilis, on the other hand, have the tides to usher in fresh volumes
