Hypoxia is an environmental stress pertinent to almost all aerobic organisms. It generally
falls under two categories: environmental and physiological hypoxia. Environmental hypoxia
occurs when an organism cannot obtain enough oxygen from its environment to maintain normal
systemic energy consumption. It thus strikes at a systemic level, and the organism must address
the problem in an integrated fashion among all tissues. In physiological hypoxia, despite
abundant environmental oxygen, a tissue's energy demand is greater than the rate of oxygen
supply to that tissue. This is usually a result of high activity, where one tissue (usually muscle)
must work at such a rate that it cannot produce ATP quickly enough through aerobic pathways
These two forms of hypoxia present very different problems to an organism. Moreover,
hypoxia can span a large range of severity, from anoxia to common fluctuations in oxygen
transport throughout the body. It is thus understandable that organisms might develop different
strategies to different severities and forms of hypoxia. These strategies generally fall under three
categories. First, organisms may reduce their physiological and behavioral activity to decrease
the demand for ATP, and thus for oxygen (Hochachka et al., 1996). This usually involves a
suppression of non-essential functions. Second, organisms may attempt to increase extraction of
oxygen from the environment and delivery of oxygen to hypoxic tissues. This can include
hyperventilation, vascularization of hypoxic tissues or alteration of blood properties such as
hematocrit or hemoglobin concentrations. Third, and possibly most prominently, organisms may
revert to anaerobic metabolic pathways to supply their remaining ATP needs. Consequently
since anaerobic metabolism is far less efficient than aerobic metabolism, organisms require a
greater quantity of metabolic substrate per ATP output, and thus may need to mobilize energy
stores such as glycogen. Moreover, anaerobic metabolism produces undesirable end-products,
such as lactic acid, which can cause acidotic damage to tissues. Thus tissues with high metabolic
costs may be in greater danger from hypoxia than tissues that operate at lower metabolic output.
To protect against acidotic buildup and to mobilize energy stores, organisms may employ tissue¬
specific metabolic strategies, shuttling energy-substrates throughout the body to provide for
various tissues' energy needs.
The purpose of this investigation is to discern which of these strategies Gillichthys
mirabilis employs to resist the periods of environmental hypoxia in its environment. A logical
