Abstract
Gillichthys mirabilis (the long-jawed mudsucker, Family Gobiidae), acclimated to 14°C, were exposed to
different periods of hypoxia. I selected the hypoxia intensity based on critical oxygen concentration (Pai)
data obtained from three fish, all of whom displayed Pait of 1.0 mg/L. I placed experimental fish in a
consistent oxygen concentration of 0.8 mg/L, and sacrificed them after 0, 8, 24 and 72 hours of exposure by
freeze-clamping in liquid nitrogen. I examined glycogen, lactate and ethanol concentrations in white
muscle, liver, heart and brain. I found no ethanol in any tissue. Lactate accumulated significantly and
similarly in all tissues throughout the time course. Glycogen changed significantly only in liver, which had
very large initial stores (6.87 + 1.46 mg/g), and drastically depleted stores by 8 hours (0.59 + 0.22 mg/g)
White muscle had consistently low glycogen (mean 0.27 + 0.01 mg/g). Brain showed some hints of
glycogen depletion (p = 0.053) by 72 hours. I conclude that during hypoxia in Gillichthys mirabilis,
glycogen is mobilized from stores in the liver and transported to meet the energy demands of brain, heart
and white muscle, which conserve their own glycogen.
Introduction
Gillichthys mirabilis is a teleost fish of the family Gobiidae that has successfully adapted
to a wide range of extreme environments. Possibly the most prominent of these extremes are the
hypoxic and sulphurous sloughs of Western California - plains of partially toxic mud with tidal
drainages that leave the substrate exposed to air and sun. To escape this exposure, Gillichthys
mirabilis have been shown to hide in small burrows created by invertebrates in the slough's
muddy substrate (Congleton, 1974). They thus spend significant time in small volumes of water
that may experience extreme hypoxia and fluctuating temperatures. Indeed, as long ago as 1930,
researchers became interested in Gillichthys mirabilis's ability to acclimate to temperature
fluctuations (Sumner and Doudoroff, 1938), and more recently the gobiid has been used as a
model for both heat and osmotic shock tolerance (Lin and Somero, 1995; Kultz and Somero,
1995; Kultz 1995; Kultz and Somero, 1994). The Gillichthys mirabilis habitat, however, is also a
site of periodic extreme hypoxia, and they may thus prove valuable as a model for studying
hypoxia tolerance.
