1o determine whether the acting venom compound is binding singularly at a
specific region of the K+ channel, a model must be used that assumes 1:1 blocking of
agonist at the binding site. To make this conclusion it is first assumed that by varving
relative concentrations of venom you are altering the blocking rate (k) of the venom. This
model is tested when the fraction of channels blocked at the three different concentrations is
plotted on an isotherm that assumes 1:1 binding of receptor and agonist (Fig. 3).
Another model was also used in which voltage-dependent toxin block was analyzed
using time constant of block and on and off rates of toxin binding. Time constant rates
were analyzed from-20 mV to +20 mV at each of the three concentrations of venom tested
and compared to the time constants that would be predicted by the equation T....
17Kolvenom + K.g. Actual measured values for time constant at each of the concentrations
were found to fit reasonably well with the values predicted by the equation:
ta - lyenom,1(1no ontol-Lyeno
t venom, (1+(yenom/Teontro-Ivenom)2
Conus venom component interacts with TEA at an external site
A conventional conopeptide of 25-40 amino acids in length (m.w. 3500-5600)
would be large in size and unable to cross the cell membrane and act internally in the way
modeled by the QA, TPeA. In order to determine at which side of the membrane the
relevant component in Conus venom is acting, a competition experiment was used with the
small QA tetraethylammonium (TEA). TEA is unable to cross the cell membrane but can act
at either outer or inner mouth of the channel to produce a time-independent decrease in L
This decrease in Ig is caused by TEA's rapid movement in and out of the pore region that
causes à transient block that also prevents the channel from inactivating. Competition
between TEA and an intrinsic inactivation mechanism was used to localize N- and C-type
inactivation in Shaker B channels to the inner and outer mouth of the channel, respectively
(Choi et al. 1991).
5
