Novel Effects of Conus californicus Venom
on Voltage-gated Potassium Channels
Abstract
Cone snails are predatory marine gastropods of the genus Conus which proliferated
to over 500 species worldwide largely through the use of novel peptide toxins (conotoxins)
that are injected into prey items through a harpooning apparatus. Conotoxins have evolved
for maximal effect on prey species hunted by each cone snail species (Duda and Palumbi
1999). All cone snail venoms examined thus far contain peptides that act with great
specificity on a variety of channels including K', Na“, Ca", and ACh receptors (Olivera et
al. 1999). Conus californicus is indigenous to the California coastline. Venom samples
were collected by extruding the contents of one venom duct into 0.5 ml external recording
solution and were further diluted during experiments. Voltage-dependent K' currents were
recorded from Shaker B K' channels, in which both N- and C-type inactivation were
eliminated, using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. When applied to the bathing
solution, the venom was found to induce rapid inactivation of Ig. K current was reduced in
à time- and concentration-dependent manner that fits satisfactorily with a simple model of
open-channel block that applies to tertiary amines and quarternary ammonium (OA) that
block K' channels at the inner mouth of the channel, but only after the channel has opened
following a voltage step. Several lines of evidence are consistent with the venom acting on
the external side of the membrane. First, the venom interacts with externally applied
tetraethylammonium (TEA), an impermeant QA. An internal blocker would be expected to
be unaffected by external TEA. Second, recovery from venom-induced Iy block is similar
to that from QA-block in its dependence on voltage, but different from QA in that recovery
shows no acceleration in solutions with elevated external K' concentration. Lack of this
effect suggests that the venom component in question is not acting to block internally,
because it cannot be dislodged by inward Ig at negative voltages. Third, channel-blocking
