Page 15
IV. Summary
Data from the five field study periods, along with observations
from less formal field studies, though complex, suggest formation of
several generalizations:
1) Collembolid activity is generally greatest on calm, cool early
mornings, with maximum activity occurring from 6:00 A.M. to
8:00 A.M. during a morning low tide.
2)
Collembolids can also be actively jumping during the night, but
to a much less degree and do not necessarily peak in activity
at the low tide.
Collembolids do not actively jump on calm, sunny days ( 10:00 A.M.
3)
to 5:00 P.M.) everything else being constant.
4)
The greatest number of active collembolids on the study beach
was normally found near station 18, a position midway in the
tidal zone.
5) Collembolid activity is significantly affected by environmental
factors. Wind decreases the amount of activity and cool air
temperatures appear to increase the amount of activity.
6) Temperature does not seem to affect the timing of the period of
maximum activity, but warmer temperatures, while decreasing
maximum activity, appear to increase earlier activity.
The results of the laboratory experiments suggest the formation of
several generalizations concerning the effect of temperature on
collembolid jumping activity in the laboratory:
1)
Collembolids show an endogenous pattern of maximum activity
during the early morning hours peaking at approximately
6:00 A.M., and this activity is maximized in the laboratory
at air temperatures near 14 degrees centigrade.
Collembolids do not survive in the laboratory when sand
2)
temperatures exceed 29 degrees centigrade.
Very cold temperatures (O to 1 degree centigrade ) appear to
3)
stop the collembolid clock and shift activity from the early
morning gate.
The A/B ratio is temperature sensitive, increasing significantly
in response to a low temperature regime (11 to 14 degrees
centigrade ). A return to ambient laboratory temperatures
(21 to 26 degrees centigrade) from a cold regime (11 to 14
degrees centigrade ) results in a significant decrease in the
A/B ratio within two days.
