FIGURE LEGEND
Figure 1- A schematic diagram of the field matrix used to collect collembolids.
Station 0 represents the highest station up the beach, at the
margin of the sand and the land vegetation. The numbers of
stations refer to meters away from station Q. High tide falls
up to station 12, low tide receeds below station 24. The
letters "A" and "B" represent collecting sites at each station
and are approximately two meters apart.
Figure 2- A schematic diagram of a collembolid trap used for field studies,
In the top view, a 3 centimeter square of graph paper used
for large count estimations is shown. The side view shows the
1.2 centimeter lip of the jar lid.
Figure 3- A graph of the number of collembolids caught in a collembolid
trap in a two minute interval as a function of time of day.
The number of animals caught at two different stations, 15
and 18, is represented by either a filled-in circle or an
outlined square. The tidal cycle is represented by the
hashed line. Collections were taken on April 27 and April 28.
Figure 4- A graph of the number of collembolids caught in a collembolid
trap in a two minute interval as a function of time of day
(May 1 to May 2 ).
The number of animals caught at two different
stations, 12 and 13, is represented by either a filled-in circle
or an outlined square. The tidal cycle is represented
by the hashed line.
Figure 5- A graph of the number of collembolids caught in a collembolid
trap in a two minute interval as a fnction of time of day
(May 9 ). The number of animals caught at two different
stations, 15 and 18, is represented by either a filled-in
circle of an outlined square. The tidal cycle is represented
by the hashed line.
Figure 6- A bar histogram of the distribution of animals along the
beach at the peak collection interval.
The y axis represents
numbers of collembolids caught in a two minute interval and
The darkened bars
thex axis is station along the beach.
represent collections taken at the A position at the stations,
the outlined bars represent the collections taken at the
B pos-ition at the stations.
Figure 7
A bar histogram of the distribution of animals along the
beach at the peak collection interval. The y axis represents:
numbers of collembolids caught in a two minute interval and
thex axis is station position along the beach. The darkened
bars represent the collections taken at the A position at the
stations, the outlined bars represent the collections taken
at the B position at the stations.
