Figure 8- A bar histogram of the distribution of animals along the
beach at the peak collection interval. The y axis represents
numbers of collembolids caught in a two minute interval and
thex axis is station position along the beach. The darkened
bars represent the collections taken at the A position at the
stations, the outlined bars represent the collections taken
at the B postion at the stations.
Figure 9- A schematic diagram of a container with an infared diode
used to contain collembolids during the course of the
laboratory experiments.
Figure 10-Two bar histograms of the amount of activity in 2 collembolid
container as a function of time of day while subjected to
a heated water bath regime. The hashed lines and the darkened
bar represent the time interval that the container spent
in the temperature regime. The temperaturee in or near the
container at specific times appears across the top of the
graph. The range of temperatures in the different conditions
appears above as well.
Figure 11-A bar histogram of the amount of activity in a collembolid
container as a function of time of day in the control
container. The hashed lines and the darkened bar represent
the time interval that the container spent in the insulated:
regime. The temperature in or near the container at specific
times appears across the top of the graph. The range
of temperatures in the different conditions appears on top
of the graph as well.
Figure 12-A bar histogram of the amount of activity in 2 collembolid
container as a function of time of day while subject to
a 12.3 degree centigrade Formatemp bath. The hashed lines
and the darkened bar represent the time interval that the
containers spent in the Formatemp regime. The temperature
in or near the container at specific times appear across the
top of the graph. The range of tem peratures in the different
conditions appears on top of the graph as well.
Figure 13-A bar histogram of the amount of activity in a collembolid
container as a function fo time of day while subject to
a regime of cold temperatures in a "blue ice" box. The
hashed lines and the darkened bar represent the time
intervals spen in the different cold regimes. The temperature
in or near the container at specific times appears across the
top of the graph. The range of temperatures in the different
condtions appears on top of the graph as well.
Figure 14-A summary of the response of collembolid activity to different
temperature regimes. The arrow represents movement from one
regime to another. Response of peak A changes and changes
in the A/B ratio as a result of different temperature conditions
is noted. The dashed line separates the contáiner kept in
the blue ice box from the other containers since it went
through several temperature changes. The dates referring to
the different regimes for the blue ice box container are
above the arrows. The temperature ranges in all the regimes
are noted below the name of the regime.
