(3)
monitored in animals subjected to several different thermal "dosages",i.e., different
times spent at 37 C. The criteria used to distinguish between torpor and non-torpor
wereidentical to the survival criteria. The recovery conditions were also identical
to the heat resistance recovery conditions.
Results
In graph 2 it is appearent that the first 12 hours spent in 20 C after acclimation
at 30 C are most important interms of the loss of heat resistance. It also suggests
that this 12 hour time period should be examined more carefully. To do this another
experiment was conducted utilizing 0,3,6,12 and 48 hour deacclimation periods. All
other procedural aspects were similar to the first experiment. The results are
shown in graph 13. From this we see that the loss of heat resistance occurs rather
rapidly, a significant portion of it within the first 3 hours. Intuitively, the
graph depicts a very rapid decay of the ability to survive high temperature stress.
The results of the torpor recovery examination can be seen in graph #4. It illustrates
the recovery from torpor seen in the first 7 hours and then the death of individuals
for the rest of the time period assayed. This result seems to contradict the model
of recovery from torpor suggested by graph #1. In one case it appears that recovery
from torpor has plateaued and yet, in the same general interval in graph #4 it
appears to peak. Consider the fact that graph l involves sampling on either side of
the peak in graph 14 and the contradiction is resolved. In analyzing the data from
graph#4 we can arrive at two conclusions: torpor and death involve two different
mechanisms, and the torpor response is much more sensitive to temperature than the
death response. The first of these ideas is supported by the general shape of the
curved produced. Animals are recovering from torpor and then dying. If death was
simply an extention of the physiologic modifications which induce torpor, this result
would not be expected. Animals would simply go into torpor and die or achieve total
