The harpacticoid copepod, Tigriopus Californicus, an inhabitant of the high
intertidal splash pools of the California coast, displays a profound ability to
withstand large fluxuations in the physical parameters of its environment. Water
temperatures ranging over a 30'Cspan have been observed, along with rapid
fluxuations in temperature. The heat resistance of T. Californicus and the role
of thermal acclimation in this process have been demonstrated. (Kontogiannis 1973)
But the nature and mechanism of resistance, while explored by Matutani (Matutani
1961), is still very much a mystery. The present study was initiated in an attempt
to better understand this process. The initial approach was to examine the time
course of the loss of heat resistance. In contrasting the temporal nature of the
acquisition and loss of heat resistance information about the process itself can
be obtained. A close corollary to this approach is the examination of the time
course of recovery from heat induced torpor. This was also pursued.
Materials and Methods
The T. Californicus used in these experiments were obtained from 2 large deep pools
at the south end of the Carmel City Beach, Carmel, California, located at about
the plus 8 foot tidal level. Animals were collected from the center of the pools
by straining water through a fine netting and then washing the captured animals into
a holding container. Throughout the course of experimentation approximately
100,000 animals were collected in this manner. The specimens were maintained in
the laboratory in three 10 gallon aquaria at 16 C - 24°C with a density of
approximately 1,500 animals per gallon. They were fed one half a teaspoon of
Tetramin (fish food) every odd day. The animals remained in these conditions for
2 - 4 days before the initiation of an experiment.
The procedure for determining the rate of loss of heat resistance is
straight forward, yet it can be divided into 4 sections: pretreatment, acclimation
to high temperature, loss of resistance to high temperature, and heat stress and
