peptide toxins manufactured within the genus Conus has been conservatively estimated at 50,000
(Bingham 1998, Jacobson 2000). This great diversity of venom peptides corresponds to an even
more impressive selectivity of individual conotoxins. Neuroactive peptides from cones snails
have been shown bind specific ion channels or even subunits of channels. Thus, conotoxins have
the potential to differentiate the ionic currents through closely related channels within a single
tissue or cell (Terlau et al. 1996). Since much of the subtlety and sophistication of our nervous
system stems from the differential expression of channel proteins, these toxins may be a
powerful tool for neurobiologists and medical practitioners. As a result, researchers have spent
considerable efforts to identify and characterize conotoxins with novel activities.
In particular, the milked venom of Conus striatus elicits a peculiar pattern of repetitive
action potentials in the frog neuromuscular junction (Joseph Schulz, personal communication).
Although this phenomenon has been know for some time, there has been no satisfactory
explanation of the mechanism by which C. striatus toxin exerts this influence. Several research
groups have identified components of C. striatus venom that appear to alter the sodium currents
in frog myelinated nerve fibers (Hahnin et al. 1990 and Gonoi et al. 1987 and Kobayashi et al.
1982). However, recent evidence indicates that the firing of repetitive action potentials may also
be influenced by alterations in the behavior of potassium channels. Craig et al. report that the
primary peptide constituent of C. striatus is a 4kD o-glycosylated peptide, named KA-conotoxin
SIVA (1998). This peptide, when isolated with FPLC, has been shown to induce repetitive firing
of action potentials in the frog neuromuscular junction similar to those induced by whole venom.
Furthermore, Craig et al. demonstrate that when Shaker potassium channels are expressed in
Xenopus oocytes, application of the purified peptide is sufficient to reduce the peak current
