Results and Discussion (Lab Studies)
Activity and position was monitored in constant
darkness, at 15 degrees C. and at a salinity of 34 ppt.
over a 52 hour period; the results for the top and bottom
counters are shown in Figure 5. At the top there occurred
a very high level of initial activity during the first
four hours. The diagram in Figure 6 therefore reflects
data after this initial time period. This histogram shows
the mean of the overall activity in which each bar represents
a six hour interval. A decreasing trend is observed for the
first 12 hours which then seems to remain relatively flat
for the following thirty. At this point the activity begins
to drop off slightly, perhaps due to a depleted source of
food. All further data were, therefore, taken during this
thirty hour period to assure a steady state condition.
Figure 7 describes the mean activity distribution
during the steady state interval. The bulk of the activity
consistently takes place in the top and bottom regions.
It is important to note that the relative flatness shown
during the steady state interval in figures 5, 6 and 7
indicates that any endogenous rhythm in activity, if present,
is sufficiently slight, and it can be neglected while
interpreting further results.
After 52 hours, a piece of plankton netting was used
to remove the animals from the surface to a depth of
approximately one inch. The run was then resumed; Figure 8
shows the results. The first set of bar graphs shows the
mean counts per hour at each level in the water column of
the four hours prior to the removal of the top layer of
animals. The next two depict mean values after two and
four hours respectively. At four hours the distribution
appears quite similar to that before removal. It appears,
therefore, that there are few, if any, individuals entirely
of top or bottom dwelling behavior. The vast majority seem
to be moving up and down in the water column. It is this
majority causing the distribution with which the behavioral
study deals.
