Materials and Methods (Lab Studies)
Test animals at an approximate density of 1 per
2 ml. of sea water were placed in plexiglass test chambers,
approximately 13 cm. high, 18 cm. long and 5 cm. wide.
Activity was monitored using small infrared photorelays
connected to an Estraline Angus event recorder (the circuitry
by Dave Bracher). Figure 1 depicts the relay. Four relays
mounted approximately 3 cm. apart on plexiglass strips were
placed vertically in the chambers. In some experiments two
such strips of relays were placed in one chamber as seen
in Figure 2. An additional relay was placed in water devoid
of animals to check for occasional spurious counts. In
experiments run in constant darkness, photographic paper
was placed immediately behind the chamber and an electronic
strobe was flashed so that the animals cast a shadow on the
paper. Once the paper was developed, these images could be
easily resolved and the instantaneous distribution of the
animals in the water column could be determined.
Experiments were carried out in a controlled temper-
ature room. In those runs which light and temperature
were varied, the animals were placed in filtered sea water
at a salinity of 34 ppt. Light sources consisted of incan-
descent and fluorescent combinations. Glass trays filled
with water were placed in front of the lights and acted as
heat filters. In experiments which necessitated the con-
struction of a saline gradient, "Instant Ocean" was used.
The apparatus used to construct this gradient is shown in
Figure 3. A beaker partly filled with an initial salt
solution of 105 ppt. was continually mixed by means of a
magnetic stirrer. Its concentration decreased in salinity
at a fairly steady rate due to a constant inflow of distilled
water. A siphon hose from the beaker fed the test chamber
where the tubing was attached to a float. The continually
changing saline solution was thus layered in the chamber
With the higher concentrations near the bottom.
Tigriopus were collected thirty minutes prior to
