make the early daylight hours and the hours slightly before
dusk conducive to feeding activities. During the bright
midday, a decrease in activity would certainly help protect
the animal from predation as well as harsh conditions
brought about by exposure to direct sunlight.
The effect of temperature upon the animals' behavior
was tested and the results are shown in Figure 13. The
salinity and constant darkness conditions were maintained
as in previous baseline studies. The temperature was kept
at 5 degrees C. for four hours, then linearly increased to
23 degrees C. spanning a 24 hour period. Both activity on
the top and activity per individual, or total activity are
plotted. Again the shpaes are relatively the same. The
interesting feature is the flat region in which activity
does not vary as a function of temperature.
These findings seem to be in accord with Newell's
work (Newell, 1967 in Prosser, 1973) dealing with the
resting metabolism of four marine invertebrates. His
graphs showed a similar region where standard metabolism
was independent of temperature. The active metabolism of
Tigriopus (Fahey, 1977) appears to have a 0.10 of about 1.8
in this temperature region. The animals monitored by the
activity counter, however, were undisturbed, having a minimal
amount of activity. This would more accurately be a measure
of resting metabolism. It is interesting to notice that
the flat region in the curves do correspond to approximate
temperatures for the tidepool during the months of April
and May. This may be another selective advantage in that
the activity of a naturally occurring population of animals
may be temperature compensated.
Another experimental run compared activity to various
saline concentrations. A salinity gradient was set up in
a container, varying from a maximum of 61 ppt. at the bottom
to a minimum of 6 ppt. at the top. All other parameters
were identical to the baseline conditions. The results in
Figure 16 clearly show an activity peak around 35 ppt. one
