page 2
Materials and Methods
Specimens of Pisaster, Strongylocentrotus, and Mytilus were collected
at Point Cabrillo, Pacific Grove, California. Specimens were incubated for
twelve hours in closed one-gallon glass jars, in sea water containing 1 ppb.
5 ppb, or 10 ppb of C+ labeled p,p'-DDT (uniformly labeled in ring, obtained
from Amersham/Nuclear Chicago). After incubation, the specimens were trans¬
ferred to tanks containing fresh sea water, where they were allowed to equil-
ibrate for a period of four hours. They were then rinsed with 95% ethanol
and dissected. The viscera and body fluids were dissolved in equal parts
of perchloric acid and glacial acetic acid on a steam bath. After complete
dissolution, an equal volume of water was added (Stanley and LeFavoure 1965).
The lipid-DDT fraction was then extracted with petroleum ether. The extracts
were passed through a sulfuric acid-Celite column to remove lipid con¬
taminants and then concentrated to volumes of 3-5 ml. in a Kuderna Danish
concentrator. The nature and relative amounts of the radioactive products
were  determined by paper chromatography analysis.
For the paper chromatography, a cylindrical glass chamber, 8" in dia¬
meter and 17" in height, was used. The mobile solvent was 2,2,h-trimethyl-
pentane, and the immobile solvent was 8% (v/v) 2-phenoxyethanol in anhydrous
ethyl ether (Mitchell 1957). Strips of Whatman No. 1 chromatographic paper.
L" by 16", were spotted with the extract and subjected to ascending paper
chromatography for four hours. The strips were then air-dried and developed
by the method of Mitchell (1957). The radioactive portions of the strips
were cut into quarter-inch horizontal fractions and counted in a Nuclear
Chicago Unilux II two-channel scintillation counter. The identity of peaks
was confirmed by cochromatography with pure C+DDT. The activity of a.25
ml. aliquot of extract was determined and a quantity of C+-DDT approximately
equal in activity to this aliquot was then added. A knowm volume of this
86
