Mites on amphipods
speed across the sand, averaged 3 inches per minute. When a living 0. cornicu¬
lata was placed at a point across the dish of sand from the mite, the mite was
observed to crawl directly across the sand and climb on the amphipod.
With these results in mind, a more complicated experiment was performed to
test mite transfer from dead to living hosts over varying distances. A large
aquarium tank was divided by metal sheets into separate compartments, measuring
about 8cm x 42cm. Sand from the normal environment, treated with steaming hot
water for fifteen minutes to kill any mites, was drained, dried to the dampness
0. corniculata prefers, then placed into each section of the aquarium, and the
surface roughly leveled. Living, uninfested Orchestoidea were caged in cylinders
of plastic screen of Imm square mesh, two animals to a cage. A cage of amphi¬
pods was placed at one end of each of the aquarium compartments. Three fresh
0. corniculata, each with three mites were killed and placed on sand in separate
runways of the aquariùm. One dead infested amphipod was placed at 10 cm. away
from the cage in runway A, one was placed 20 cm. away in runway B, and one at
30 cm. in runway C. Runway D contained live caged uninfested hosts and no dead
host with parasites. After nine hours (overnight, in darkness), the cage in run¬
way A contained one amphipod with two mites and one with one mite (no loss of
mites over 10 cm.).. In runway B, one caged amphipod bore three mites, the other
none (no loss of mites over 20 cm.). In runway C, each caged amphipod bore one
mite (loss of one mite over 30 cm.). No mites were found on the caged amphipods
in control runway D.
The results of these experiments suggest the mites may possess senses enabling
them to locate hosts over considerable distances,a worthwhile subject for further
study.
Mites in other environments than the host. The foregoing observations and
experiments suggest that some part of the mite population is existing apart from
the 0. corniculata population at any one time. Alternative environments for these
