Mites on amphipods
The number of mites on the ventral surface was greater anteriorly on the
hosts while the number on the gills was higher posteriorly, where the gills are
larger. In cases of heavy infestation, mites tended to cluster into dense packs
in the center of the venter. The ventral surface of the host is relatively thinly
armored and down the middle, passing close to the epidermis runs a large blood
sinus (Cussans, 1904). The five pairs of gills also offer a rich blood supply.
If the m tes are drawing fluids from the host, better places could not be found.
Mites were never found attached to the host's tail area, probably because of
the amphipods' mode of locomotion. When a beach hopper jumps, it curls its tail
forward under the body, then straightens it suddenly in springing away.
On brooding females, mites (8) were also found on the four pairs of oostegites
or brood plates which retain the eggs or young. No mites were ever found on any of
the eggs or young belonging to the brooding females examined.
Mites were most often found attached to the amphipod by their mouth parts;
their remaining appendages were held extended, but not attached. This position
does suggest feeding. However, even the more heavily infested hosts showed no
obvious signs of weakness, damage, or even inconvenience caused by the mites.
Not all mites were attached at their mouths to the host. On the host's
gills, mites often adhered by their posterior ends and had their appendages drawn
close to their bodies. Possibly individuals are attached by a thread of sticky
material ejected through their anus, as has been noted in some Uropodina (Hughes,
1959, p. 25).
The behavior of mites during molting of the host was never observed, but
it seems likely this presents few problems to the attached ectoparasites. Orches¬
toidea, after molting, remains dormant for a period, and then proceeds to eat its
own shed exoskeleton (McClurkin. 1955). This host behavior would appear to give
the mites plenty of opportunity to detach from the old skin and find a place on
