Mites on amphi pods
The occurrence of mites on the host population
Investigations were made to discover the extent to which the host population
was infested by mites, and to see whether or not the mites show a preference for
hosts of a particular size or sex. A total of 275 hosts was collected. Each
individual amphipod was immediately placed in a separate vial of 75% ethyl alco¬
hol, thus any mites that became detached from their hosts could be counted and
attributed to a single amphipod.
In the laboratory, the contents of each vial were examined under a disect¬
ing microscope. Each amphipod was identified by species and sex, and the number
of mites and their positions on the host were noted. Occasional mites were found
to have come free of their hosts and were loose in the vials of alcohol. The
sexes of the youngest hosts could not be determlned. In the case of brooding female
hosts, the eggs or young were also checked for mites. The body length of each
amphipod was then measured by straightening the body and recording the distance
from the front of the rostrum to the tip of the telson. The O. corniculata col¬
lected ranged in length from 3mm, the size when the young first leave the mar¬
supium (McClurkin, 1953), to 24mm, the size of the largest males.
Results of the survey (Fig. 1) show there is a positive correlation between
host body size and the percentage of the host population infested. In fact, only
amphipods
one mite (a deutonymph) was found among the 63
of the smallest size class
examined. The smallest amphipods have less exposed ventral surface area for mite
attachment, and also show a pattern of behavior slightly different from that of
the larger hosts. The youngest amphipods are more active than the larger ones
during the days, and can sometimes be found hopping above the surface at that
time (Bowers, 1964, and personal observations). Mites are very susceptible to
desication (Cheng, 1964, p. 545) and conceivably, this host daytime behavior could
subject the mites to drying conditions.
