Diego. Fifteen individuals (basal diameters ranging from 6-12mm) with ripe lamellae were
collected haphazardly from each site by removing adults from the rock with a screwdriver. At the
Central California sites, barnacles were collected from mid-intertidal, wave-exposed areas near
the lower limit of the mussel bed (Mytilus californianus). Barnacles from San Diego and Oregon
were collected on M. californianus shells from the upper part of the mussel bed and sent to
Hopkins Marine Station. Intertidal data loggers (Optic Stowaway, Onset Computer Corporation,
Pocasett, MA) recorded water temperature every 30 minutes at Fogarty Creek, Soberanes Point,
and Hopkins; AVHRR satellite images of Southern California were obtained to determine mean
water temperature at San Diego during the brooding period.
Lab analysis. Barnacle size (maximum basal diameter of the shell) and embryo size
were quantified for each barnacle collected. Only individuals with the darkest egg masses were
sampled to ensure that embryos were in the latest stage of development. In fact, upon inspection
under a microscope, most of the embryos in the sampled egg masses had already hatched.
Variation in embryo size among individuals due to developmental stage was thus eliminated.
since all embryos were at the same stage of development. For each individual, the length of 15
haphazardly selected embryos was measured (to the nearest 0.002mm) under a raised coverslip
using a 40x power objective and an ocular micrometer. To compare differences in reproductive
allocation between bay and open coast barnacles, the dry weights of the shell, soft body, and egg
masses were quantified. The shells, bodies and egg masses were dried at 70°C for 24 hours until
they reached a constant mass. Approximately 2% of each egg mass (90-200 of 5,000-10,000
embryos) was sampled to measure embryo length, and the rest (except for the Oregon and San
Diego samples) was dried for weighing. The dried mass of even 500 embryos was undetectable
