diffuse into embryos? Hines (1976) and many others have reported that barnacle embryos
developing at colder temperatures take longer to hatch. This would seem to suggest the latter of
the two above possibilities, since a longer period of development would mean more time to
acquire nutrients through diffusion. Beyond affecting larval size and development rate, little is
known regarding the effects of colder temperatures on other larval qualities. Lab and field
studies of larval survival and performance, which may include measurements of respiration.
feeding, and swimming rate, would create a more complete description of larval quality,
Reproductive Effort
The hypothesis that higher reproductive effort would be found in bay barnacles was
based on the assumption that conditions of food availability in the bay were higher than on the
open coast, as reported in Bertness et al. (1991) for Narragansett Bay. However, no measure of
food availability within or outside the Monterey Bay was made for this study. Narragansett Bay
has significant amounts of estuarine input responsible for higher productivity in the bay. On the
west coast, upwelling, which is a factor that does not come into play on the east coast, may be
providing additional nutrients to local open coast phytoplankton populations, thus increasing
food availability to filter feeders such as barnacles in those areas. Thus, one might expect to see
à pattern on the west coast opposite to that on the east coast: higher food availability on the open
coast due to upwelling, resulting in higher reproductive effort in barnacles at open coast sites.
But unless Pigeon Point has anomalously low levels of upwelling for an open coast site, this
explanation may only partially account for the results in this study. Reproductive effort at
Pigeon Point was more similar to bay sites than it was to the other open coast sites. However,
upwelling and subsequent phytoplankton blooms do not always have immediate effects on
barnacle growth. Sanford and Menge (200 1) reported that short-term growth rates in B. glandula
