along the Oregon coast were not well correlated with chl-a abundance. They suggested this may
be due to the influence of zooplankton abundance, an additional food source for barnacles. The
added complexity of another trophic level to this system could certainly account for fluctuations
in growth rates and possibly in reproductive effort.
Ultimately, higher food availability should correspond to higher growth rates. Whether
there is as strong a correlation between growth rates and reproductive effort in Monterey Bay as
was seen in Narragansett Bay remains to be seen. Barnacle growth rates at all six sites must be
quantified to confirm whether food availability alone could account for the dramatically higher
levels of reproductive effort seen in the three southern sites.
Factors other than food availability could also be affecting reproductive effort, such as
differences in energy partitioning due to crowding. Wu et al. (1977) noted that a decrease in the
degree of crowding was associated with an increase in reproductive effort in B. glandula.
Crowded barnacles expend a greater proportion of their total energy on building a taller shell,
presumably in an effort to increase their surface area for food acquisition in the face of limitec
space and intense competition with neighboring barnacles. Population density must therefore be
taken into account when formulating hypotheses concerning reproductive effort. Areas of higher
food availability would not necessarily result in higher reproductive effort if settlement rates
were also high, leading to crowding as the barnacles grew. A measure of population density for
each site was not made for this study, but such information would be useful.
Another confounding factor is the possibility of asynchronous release of larvae at
different sites. B. glandula may have up to 6 broods per brooding season (Hines 1976) and data
suggest that the earliest brood is composed of the most embryos (Barnes and Barnes 1956). It is
not known whether each brood after that is successively smaller, but the possibility should be
