Traditionally, sources have been defined as net exporters of individuals, and the
convention for identifying them in marine systems has been to backtrack larvae to their physical
sources based on dispersal patterns mediated by ocean currents and factors such as length of
planktonic development and larval swimming ability (Crowder et al. 2000). This definition has
recently been augmented with another approach that focuses on habitat quality by tracking
growth, mortality, and reproduction patterns for a given population. Finding habitats where
reproduction is optimized could be a first step in applying source-sink dynamics to marine
reserve design. Different aspects of habitat may influence both the quality and quantity of
larvae produced, thereby differentiating habitats from each other in terms of their value as
reproductive sources.
Using the acorn barnacles Balanus glandula as a model system, questions concerning
what determines larval quantity and quality can be addressed. B. glandula is found in the mid
and high intertidal zone from Alaska to Baja California. This species broods developing
embryos for approximately four weeks (Hines 1976) prior to their release as planktonic larvae
(nauplii). Larvae then spend two to four weeks in the water column before attaching to rocky
substrate on the shore and metamorphosing into juvenile barnacles. Crisp and Patel (1960)
found that barnacle nauplii (Semibalanus balanoides) hatch at a larger size when they developed
at colder temperatures, and it was later shown that larger larvae tend to grow faster following
settlement and metamorphosis (Jarrett and Pechenik 1997). Due to the increased chance of
survival for larger settlers, larger larvae may be of higher quality. According to this information,
larval size would be expected to vary with temperature along a latitudinal gradient (Barnes and
Barnes 1965); that is, if temperature varies inversely with latitude, larvae should increase in size
from Southern California northward.
