The isolation of microtubule structure underlying the movements observed
also supports the findings of this experiment. An ammonia-activated sea urchin
egg will not divide, requiring the bipolarity the sperm provides with its
centrosome. Debate exists as to whether the unfertilized egg contains a centrosome
at all or whether it contains an inactive centrosome. Nonetheless, the egg is
capable of assembling microtubule structure, which has been described as "non-
polar" (Mazia, 1988). This experiment shows that this structure is at least capable
of moving the membrane surface. In some instances, mostly later in the cell's life
this movement is sufficient to destroy the membrane. Further studies on the
correlation between types of surface movement and types of cytoskeletal
arrangement in these fragments would provide a better understanding of assembly
and use of organized microtubule structure, such as in cytokinesis.
The correlation found between the time of the most active movement and
the isolation of asters may support hypotheses about communication of
intracellular elements with the surface. It is known that vesicles are transported
bidirectionally in microtubules. This experiment also has implications for models
of maternal centrosome arrangement. The linear model proposed by Mazia (Mazia
1987) is supported by this study in that an unfolded linear structure split by
centrifugation could explain the finding of astral organization in both nucleate and
enucleate fragments.
This study has addressed the idea of endogenous oscillators, or "clocks", in
biological systems. Endogenous control of behavioral, physiological, and
bioche mical patterns have been uncovered in most organisms that have been the
pursuit of such studies. For example, the hypothalamus in the brain of humans is
regulates cycles of rest, body temperature, metabolism.
What is the cellular clock?" is a question that has been the inquiry of
previous experiments. Enucleate cells and the discovery of MPF have provided a
clearer picture. The questions asked by this investigation are "Where is the
cellular clock?" and "How long will it run (under experimental manipulation)?
appears that it runs quite successfully throughout the cell, so that both nucleate
and enucleate fragments are capable of attempting cytokinesis, sometimes even to
the point of self-destruction.
