ABSTRACT
Unfertilized sea urchin eggs, centrifuged into nucleate and enucleate fragments,
were activated by ammonia and time-lapse videotaped on a light microscope to
record move ments of the membrane surface. These fragments, unable to divide,
exhibit wiggling" and contractile movement that corresponds in time with the
nor mal first and second mitotic cycles, peaking in intensity with expected
cytokinesis. Movement then declines in intensity, corresponding in time with
nor mal interphase. Cytoskeletal isolations performed at times of intense
move ment show astral organization of microtubules in both nucleate and enucleate
fragments.
INTRODUCTION
It has been hypothesized by Koki Hara, Peter Tydeman, and Marc Kirshner
that control of the cell cycle is driven by an "autonomous oscillator" (Murray and
Kirshner, 1991). Three main experimental ideas, concerning the critical event of a
cell entering mitosis, have led to the formation of this concept.
First, premature chromosome condensation (PCC) occurs in an interphase cell
when fused with a mitotic cell; cell in Gl will prematurely condense its
chromosomes into single strands, a cell in S will prematurely condense its
chromosomes partially into single and partially into double strands, and a cell in G2
will prematurely condense its chromosomes into double strands (Johnson and Rao,
1970).
Second, unfertilized sea urchin eggs activated by ammonia-treated sea water
will begin successive cycles of DNA synthesis and chromosome condensation, but do
not divide (Mazia, 1974). These eggs will cause synchronous PCC in as many as 50
polysper mically fertilizing sperm nuclei. PCC also occurs in these sperm nuclei
when polysper mically fertilizing am monia-activated nucleate and enucleate cell
fragments formed from a whole cell by centrifugation or bisection (Poccia et al.,
1978).
Cell cycle control, therefore, appears to pervade the cell and be cytoplasmic
as opposed to being discretely contained in an organelle, such as the nucleus.
Third, cyclin, a protein component of MPF (maturation promoting factor or
mitosis promoting factor), has been shown to oscillate in amounts critical to the
onset of mitosis. Since enzymes are closely linked to protein levels, MPF defines
what is controlling the cell cycle closer to something that is inherent in the make
