Cytoskeletal isolations
A solution of 10 mM dithiothreotol (DTT) in sea water was calibrated to pH
9.0 with NaoH. Unfertilized eggs were treated with DTT for 5.5 sec with agitation
in a waterbath shaker. Eggs were resuspended in sea water before centrifugation.
collection, and ammonia activation, as described previously, to obtain fragments
and centrifuged whole eggs. Isolation medium was calibrated to pH 5.9-6.0 with
HCl. At times corresponding to expected mitotic apparatus assembly for the first
cleavage (1.75 -2.25 hrs), 3 ml samples in 15 ml rounded-bottom glass test tubes
were resuspended in KGE. Immediate resuspension again followed, with 200 ul
Triton X-100 pipetted into the suspension and covering with parafilm for gentle
mixing by inversion of the test tube. Observations were made by a Zweiss WL
microscope. Twenty ul of DAPI was added to each 3 ml sample for observations on
an Olympus BH2 microscope with fluorescence attachments.
RESULTS
Time-lapse video recording
Successive patterns of membrane surface movement were observed in both
nucleate and enucleate fragments and both centrifuged and uncentrifuged controls,
with increasing intensity corresponding to the onset of mitosis and cytokinesis of
the first and second cleavages in fertilized controls (Fig. 1). Decreasing intensity of
movement corresponded to post-cleavage events in fertilized controls, often
decreasing to the point of very little movement ('calm" period) or no movement at
all (’quiet" period). Furthermore, these events corresponded to the cell cycling of
uncentrifuged controls, apparent by the disappearance and reappearance of a
visible nucleus. In general, the fragments and controls exhibited the following
relative intensity of movement: nucleate » enucleate » centrifuged control »
uncentrifuged control.
On occasion, at times beyond the second 'calm/quiet" period, both nucleate
and enucleate fragments and both centrifuged and uncentrifuged controls, were
observed to undergo violent distortions of the the membrane surface to the extent
that the cell would ’explode", or fall apart. These movements would begin at 3.5-
6.5 hrs and would take place over the course of a few hours (Fig. 2 and Fig. 3).
