TIME-SCALE OF MEMBRANE SURFACE MOYEMENTS:
TIME“
PERIOD
1:15 - 1:45 Movement
1:45 -2:45 First Cleavage
2:00 - 2:30
Calm/Quiet
2:15 -3:00
Movement
2:45 - 3:45
Second Cleavage
3:00 - 4:00
Calm/Quiet
Preparations for time-lapse video recording consisted of assorted ceil fragments and controis. Most
fragments and controls exhibited these movements. The time-scale of events was taken from four recordings.
These recordings were made from CFC stide preparations of egg samples that were temperature controlled
(approx. 170C), because it was found that fertilized controis were more successful at completing two
divisions at cosder temperatures. However, it did not appear that the cosder temperatures greatsy affected
the presented data.
Times (hrs: min) indicate the range of times the specific events were observed to occur. Note:
slight movement was often observed before the first movements (1:15-1:45).
Note: Slight movement was often observed before the first movements occurred (1:15-1:45).
Cytoskeletal Isolations
Cytoskeletal isolations of both nucleate and enucleate fragments at times
corresponding to expected MA assembly for the first cleavage showed an astral
microtubule arrangement in each type of fragment. DAPI staining confir med
distinction between nucleate and enucleate fragments (Fig. 4 and Fig. 5).
Note: Isolations of bisected eggs by Daniel Mazia were used to illustrate these
results. Isolations of centrifuged eggs were unsuccessfully photographed and time
constraints disallowed further isolations.
DISCUSSION
It is shown from this study that patterns of membrane surface events in
activated, but unfertilized, sea urchin egg fragments can be defined.
These
patterns can provide alternative means of analyzing the occurence of cell cycle
events by observing the outside of the cell, as opposed to the inside. These results
are supported by three different controls--centrifuged, uncentrifuged, and
fertilized eggs. Time-lapse video recording of bisected, rather than centrifuged,
fragments could provide further evidence. Slightly flattening these fragments by
the CFC preparation would facilitate the visibility of nuclei and, therefore, the
distinction between nucleate and enucleate fragments. The flattening, however,
would probably alter nor mal development somewhat.
