up of the cell, possibly a series of self-perpetuating chemical reactions (Murray and
Kirschner, 1991).
These studies that have shown unfertilized, enucleate fragments of sea
urchin eggs capable of controlling the onset of mitosis, or chromosome
condensation. By observation of membrane surface events, the present study
investigates the ability of these fragments to assemble a mitotic apparatus (MA),
that is, to proceed even further into mitosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Eggs and sperm of Strongylocentrotus purpuratus were used. Animals were
induced to shed by hand-shaking and/or intracoelomic injection of 0.5 ml KCl. Eggs
were shed directly into filtered sea water (FSW), passed through a 130 um Nitex
cloth filter, and maintained at approx. 170C in a waterbath shaker. Sperm was
stored dry at 40C and diluted at least 3000X just before use.
Centrifugal production of fragments
Nucleate and enucleate fragments from S purpuratus were prepared in a
ultracentrifuge (Nishioka and Mazia, 1974). One molal sucrose was made with
distilled water and 0.25 molal sucrose was made by diluting the 1.0 molal sucrose
with FSW. Both sucrose solutions were used to prepare six 35 ml 0.25 molal to 1.0
molal linear sucrose gradients by hand and were allowed to stand for at least 10
min or overnight. Two ml aliquots of a 42 egg suspension were layered over each
gradient and centrifuged at 7,000 rpm for 10 min and 9,000 rpm for 10 min in a
Beck man ultracentrifuge with a SW-27.1 rotor. Immediately after centrifugation,
the nucleate fragments (upper band), whole eggs (middle band), and enucleate
fragments (lower band) were collected separately with a pipette into an equal
volume of sea water. Immediately after collection, the fragments and whole eggs
were resuspended in FSW.
Generally, three layers-a thick layer of nucleate halves, a thick layer of
enucleate halves, and a thin layer of whole eggs-were obtained, although on
occassion 1 or 2 additional layers of nucleate and enucleate quarters were
obtained. Whole eggs stratified into a centripetal oil cap, a large clear zone
containing the nucleus just underneath the oil cap, and yolk. Fragments were split
equally in size, with nucleate halves containing the oil, clear zone, and nucleus, and
the enucleate halves containing mostly yolk. Variations in size and stratification
did occur in eggs from female to female.
