Manual production of fragments
Unfertilized eggs were passed, by mouth suction, through a 23 um Nitex
fitler fitted to the end of a small cylinder. Irregularly shaped fragments were
produced which eventually reassumed a round shape.
Egg sample preparations for time-lapse video recording
Fragments, centrifuged whole eggs (control for fragmentation by
centrifugation), and uncentrifuged whole eggs (control for centrifugation) were
combined together for ammonia activation as described below. Samples also
included control fertilized eggs obtained as described below. Egg samples were
prepared on chlorofluorocarbon slides and placed on a Zweiss WL microscope for
video recording by a Panasonic time-lapse system.
Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) slides: Depression slides were filled with some CFC
FC-43. A normal microscope slide was tightly moved over the depression slide,
flattening a drops of egg sample. Petroleum jelly was applied to the edges of the
slides to ensure the tight seal between the depression and covering slides.
Ammonia activation
Eggs were activated by culturing for 18 min in FSW titrated to pH 9.4 with
NHAOH (Mazia, 1974). The culture was maintained in a waterbath shaker at
approx. 170C. Eggs were immediately resuspended in FSW (approx. pH 8).
Activation was considered to have occurred at initial exposure to pH 9.4.
Fertilized control eggs
Uncentrifuged, untreated whole eggs were fertilized at the same time eggs
were activated by ammonia, followed by 3 washes with FSW to eliminate sperm in
egg sample.
Time-lapse video recording
A Zweiss WL microscope fitted with a Panasonic WV350A camera was used
to record onto a Panasonic time-lapse video recorder. Recordings were taken at
time-lapse mode 180 hr/Ihr real time onto a videotape and played back at real
time speed. A Blue M cooling probe was layed flat on the microscope stage to
maintain a stage temperature of approx. 170C.
Note: Due to sudden difficulty in playback imaging, selected still images from the
time-lapse videotape were converted by a Megavision image processor.
