free Nat saline is added to the extracellular medium. The shortening and rounding of the
photoreceptors also suggests that some damage may have occurred to the cells during the
dissociation procedure. Nasi and Gomez (1992) reported that the cells were highly susceptible to
deterioration upon exposure to temperatures above 15°C. In these experiments, the cells were
maintained at a temperature just at or below 15°C, so it is possible that cell shortening and
rounding was caused by high temperatures. Slices of squid retina are also known to be very
sensitive to hypoxia (Pinto and Brown, 1977). The in vivo sensitivity to hypoxia is easily
understood because of the high density of cells in the retina, but it is not known whether
dissociated cells still have an unusually high oxygen requirement. Since freshly oxygenated
extracellular solution was not used after cell dissociation due to the complexity of the perfusion
system, membranes may have been altered at the relatively low atmospheric partial pressure of
oxygen.
The non-zero open probability of the patch in the absence of cGMP may also be an inherent
characteristic of the cGMP-gated channels themselves. The cGMP-gated channels observed in
these experiments might be members of a subclass of cyclic nucleotide-modulated channels. In
such channels, cGMP binding is not obligatory for opening, but instead increases open probability
(Yau and Chen, 1995). A cAMP-modulated Kt channel has been observed in larval Drosophila
muscle (Delgado et al., 1991) that has a low, voltage independent, basal probability of opening that
is increased by cAMP. The probability of opening for the squid photoreceptor cGMP-gated
channel could be similarly modulated by CGMP.
No significant voltage dependence of probability of opening was observed in the patches.
However, it is possible that voltage dependence was masked by the changing activity of multiple
types of channels within one patch. Every patch contained voltage-stimulated channel activity
while cell-attached and ripped-off. This is in contrast to previous experiments performed in the
dark in which most patches did not contain voltage-stimulated activity (Nasi and Gomez, 1992).
Nasi and Gomez observed a few patches which required concurrent light and voltage stimulation
