pipette negative. The inner membrane face was continuously perfused with Ca2--free ASW
containing various concentrations of cGMP. In the control, the perfusion solution contained no
cGMP and few channel openings were observed (Fig. 4A). The addition of 10 uM cGMP
activated multiple channels in the patch (Fig. 4B).
Dose response data was obtained by perfusing the cytosolic face of the patch with Ca2--free
ASW containing 1, 10, and 100 uM cGMP, switching back to a control solution of Ca2--free ASW
without cGMP between different cGMP concentrations. Membrane voltage was held constant at
either 20 or 40 mV, pipette negative. The open probability (Po) of the patch was calculated by
dividing mean open time by mean closed time, using 50% of the smallest unitary conductance
measured directly from the current recording as the criterion for channel openings. Open
probability of the patch reversibly increased from a basal Po of 0.20 in the absence of cGMP to
0.91 in the presence of 100 uM cGMP on the inside face of the patch. A plot of open probability
versus cGMP concentration shows that the increase in open probability tends toward a saturating
value, with open probability increasing rapidly at low cGMP concentrations and approaching a
probability of 1 as cGMP concentrations increase (Fig. 5).
Voltage independence of patch open probability
Experiments were conducted with Ca2--free ASW on both sides of patches obtained from
the microvillar region and cell body. Saturating concentrations of cGMP were applied to the inner
face of the patch. As the patch was depolarized, patch open probability showed no significant
voltage dependence. Figure 6 shows data from several different patches plotted as patch open
probability versus membrane voltage. A least squares linear regression fit of the data points
(Microsoft Excel) is shown in the figure.
Unitary conductance analysis of macroscopic patches
Analysis of the unitary conductance of channels measured directly from current amplitude
recordings revealed that patches contained multiple channel types. Scatter plots of conductances
