Channel openings persist in the presence of high Mg2-
Both dose response and voltage independent data were recorded in the presence of 60 mM
Mg2t, a concentration that would completely block conductance in bovine rod cGMP-gated
channels (Haynes, 1995; Sesti, 1994). The persistence of channel conductance under these
conditions indicates that squid ion channels are not sensitive to Mg2- block.
DISCUSSION
Thave shown that the open probability of macroscopic patches of squid photoreceptor cell
membrane increases with cGMP concentration. The data, along with the fact that the patch dose-
response curve saturates as cGMP is raised, indicate that there is at least one cGMP-gated channel
in the squid photoreceptor membrane. There are three possible explanations for the observation
that open probability is not zero the absence of cGMP: 1) multiple channel types exist in the patch,
including non-cGMP-gated channels which open independent of cGMP concentration, 2) the
preparation and patch clamping process irreversibly damaged the cells and allowed cGMP to
accumulate externally, and 3) the cGMP-gated channels in the patch are modulated by cGMP, but
have a non-zero open probability in the absence of cGMP.
Multiple channels within the patches made data difficult to analyze. Conductance of each
different channel type could not be definitively determined from the few patches available for
analysis. However, as shown in Figure 6A, there is clear indication of the presence of non-
CGMP-gated channels in the patch.
Non-zero open probability in the absence of cGMP may have also been due to spontaneous
openings caused by exposure of the inside-out patches to Ca-free ASW. Experiments on inside-
out patches from Limulus ventral photoreceptors showed that brief exposure of excised patches to
ASW altered cGMP-gated channel behavior such that the patches exhibited spontaneous openings
when examined in a Nat free solution (Bacigalupo et al., 1991). These observations are consistent
with the increased rate of cell shortening and rounding seen in squid photoreceptors when divalent
