were made such that clusters of data points indicated the approximate conductance of specific
channels within the patch. In the example shown in Figure 7, data was recorded with Ca2--free
ASW on both sides of the patch from the cell body and a pipette potential of-40 mV. When no
cGMP was present, data points were clustered around a conductance of 19 pS (Fig. 7A). Upon
addition of 10 uM cGMP to the inside face of the patch, a second set of data points appeared
clustered around a conductance of approximately 14 pS (Fig. 7B). This indicates the existence of
at least two channels in the patch, a 14 pS cGMP-channel and a 19 pS non-cGMP-gated channel.
Multiple channels of the same type were also observed within patches. During an
experiment performed in divalent free Nat saline on both sides of the membrane with 200 uM
cGMP applied to the inside membrane face and a pipette potential of -46 mV, up to four channels
of the same conductance (approximately 65 pS) were seen opening at the same time (Fig. 8).
Channel openings longer than 100 mS were common at this high cGMP concentration.
Ca't block of channels
Calcium ions were shown to block at least one channel type with a conductance of
approximately 100 pS. The experiment was performed with divalent free Nat saline on both sides
of a patch from the microvillar region and a voltage of 40 mV, pipette positive. Saturating cGMP
was applied to the inside face of the patch. The channel exhibited long openings and brief closures
(Fig. 9A). In part B, a 2 mM CaCl, solution in Nat saline was added directly to the recording
chamber, resulting in complete channel block. Part C also shows channel block by Ca2-. While
voltage was increased in a ramp from -50 to +50 mV, the patch consistently displayed higher
conductance in the absence of Ca2- than in the presence of Ca2-. Without Ca2, the trace shows
that channels remain closed for the duration of the sweep whereas a short closure in the Ca2 free
trace at about -50 mV shows that the channel remains open most of the time in the absence of Ca2-
The closed state conductance of Ca2 free patch is lower than the closed state conductance with
Ca2t, possibly because calcium improves the seal resistance. These current recordings were not
adjusted for leak through the patch and thus would not account for variations in the seal resistance.
