accepted that invertebrate photoreceptors depolarize in response to light. Studies have shown that
the rhodopsin and GTP-binding protein from the vertebrate and squid systems cross-react (Saibil
and Michel-Villaz, 1984). However, details of the events between rhodopsin activation of GTP-
binding protein and depolarization of the invertebrate photoreceptor cell are not known. Cyclic
GMP has been implicated as a second messenger in the squid phototransduction cascade by studies
demonstrating that exposure to a flash of light increases the cGMP concentrations in squid
photoreceptor homogenates (Saibil, 1984) and pieces of squid retina (Johnson et al., 1986). More
recently, this effect was called into question when the results could not be reproduced in replicate
experiments (Brown et al., 1992) and other research suggested that cGMP levels do not change in
octopus retinal cells following a flash of light (Seidou et al., 1993).
The presence of cGMP-gated ion channels in the squid photoreceptor cell would support
the idea that cGMP is a second messenger in this system; by analogy with the vertebrate system,
such a channel might serve as the downstream target responsible for the depolarization in response
to light. This idea is supported by the discovery of a cGMP-activated channel in the light-sensitive
lobe of Limulus ventral photoreceptors (Lisman et al., 1992; Bacigalupo et al.. 1992; Johnson and
Bacigalupo, 1992). Until now however, the search for such a channel in squid has been hampered
by the difficulty of obtaining solitary photoreceptor cells, although one bilayer reconstitution
experiment has indicated that squid photoreceptors contain a cGMP-gated channel (Nasi and
Gomez, 1990). A recently developed protocol for dissociation of squid retina was used to obtain
healthy solitary photoreceptor cells (Nasi and Gomez, 1992) for patch clamp experiments. This
report describes the properties of cGMP-gated channels in inside-out patches.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Isolation of photoreceptors
Photoreceptors were isolated according to a procedure adapted from Nasi and Gomez
(1992). Reagents were obtained from Sigma unless otherwise specified. Squid (Loligo
