before channel openings were observed, which could explain the differences in channel activity
observed in the light and dark.
The calcium blockage of the 100 pS channel in Figure 8 suggests some similarity between
this channel and vertebrate rod cGMP-gated channels, which are also blocked by calcium (Haynes
1995, Sesti 1994). Ca2t block may provide a possible mechanism for recovery from the light
response and light adaptation as it does in vertebrate rods. However, the 100 pS channel cannot be
definitively identified as a cGMP-gated channel because no control recordings in the absence of
cGMP were obtained from this patch. In contrast, other channels, in particular the 14 pS CGMP
gated channel, do not exhibit Mg2t block. This is similar to other invertebrate cyclic nucleotide-
gated channels (Bacigalupo et al., 1991; Baumann et al., 1994; Christy, 1996). Lack of Mg2-
block suggests that the structure of squid cGMP-gated channels differs significantly from the
vertebrate rod cGMP channels, which would be completely blocked at 60 mM Mg2¬
concentrations.
In the context of the controversy surrounding whether cGMP is an internal messenger in
the squid phototransduction, the data from this experiment supports the hypothesis that increased
levels of cGMP are responsible for the depolarization of a photoreceptor in response to light and
that cGMP-gated channels are the effectors. To obtain more compelling evidence for this model, it
is necessary to definitively determine the cellular localization of these cGMP-gated channels. The
shortening and rounding of dissociated photoreceptors raises the question of whether patches were
truly taken from the microvillar and cell body regions of the photoreceptor since the cell shape
changed. The possibility of lateral movement of ion channels within the lipid bilayer during these
morphological changes also exists. Localization of these channels to different areas of the cell
membrane could have important implications on their cellular function. Further experimentation to
obtain single-channel patches is needed to better characterize these cGMP-gated channels,
determine their similarity to the light-dependent channels, and conclusively determine how many
types of cGMP-gated channels exist in the squid photoreceptor.
