opalescens) obtained in Monterey Bay, CA, were dark adapted for at least 30 min before use. All
manipulations of photoreceptors up to the mechanical trituration step were performed in darkness
or dim red light (Kodak Safelight Filter no. 1A). Squid were decapitated and the head quickly
immersed in ice cold normal artificial seawater (ASW): (mM) 460 NaCl, 10 KCl, 10 CaCl,, 50
MgClz, 10 HEPES (pH 7.8). Eyes were dissected out and transferred to ice cold oxygenated
calcium-free artificial seawater (Ca2--free ASW): (mM) 460 NaCl, 10 KCl, 60 MgCl,, 10 HEPES
(pH 7.8). The sclera was peeled from the back of the eye and the retina cut out. The retina was
transferred to clean ice-cold Ca2--free ASW and cut into strips of approximately 1 mm x 5 mm,
which were transferred to a test tube containing 800-1000 units/ml Pronase (Calbiochem, San
Diego, CA) in Ca2--free ASW and incubated for 1 hour in a refrigerator at 3-4°C. The Pronase
solution was freshly made 10-15 min before use. Äfter incubation, the pieces of retina were
washed twice with 2 ml aliquots of 3% bovine albumin in normal ASW. Dissociation of
photoreceptor cells was then performed by gentle mechanical trituration with a pulled and fire-
polished Pasteur pipette in ice cold 100uM leupeptin and 50 uM pepstatin in Ca2--free ASW. An
aliquot of cells was transferred to a recording chamber pre-treated with poly-(D)-lysine to
facilitate cell adhesion.
Inside-out patch recording
Macroscopic currents were recorded in the inside-out patch configuration from patches
obtained from the microvillar region and cell body of isolated photoreceptor cells. The recording
chamber was maintained at 15°C. Patch pipettes were pulled from fiber-filled borosilicate capillary
tubing (Sutter Instruments Co.) just before experiments and coated near to the tip with Silgard
elastomer (Dow Corning). The standard extracellular medium and pipette solution was Ca2+free
ASW. Na-cGMP solutions applied to patches were prepared by serial dilution from a 10 mM
stock solution in distilled water. Cyclic GMP solutions were added to the recording chamber via a
gravity perfusion system or by pipetting the solutions directly into the chamber. In calcium block
experiments, both pipette solution and extracellular medium were divalent free Nat saline
