ABSTRACT
Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (CGMP) gated channels serve as the downstream target in
vertebrate visual transduction. However, it is not known whether cGMP-gated channels play a
similar role in photoreceptors from invertebrates. Inside-out patch clamping of solitary
photoreceptor cells isolated from the retina of the squid (Loligo opalescens) revealed that the
probability of channel opening increases from a baseline of Po = 0.20 in the absence of cGMP to
near saturation (Po = 0.91) at 100 uM cGMP, suggesting the existence of cGMP-gated channels.
The probability of channel openings was independent of membrane potential over the range -60 to
+60 mV. Data from these macroscopic patches revealed multiple channel types with unitary
conductances ranging from 10 to 125 pS in symmetrical Nat solutions. Conductance of a 100 pS
channel was blocked by the addition of 2 mM Ca2 to the inner face of the patch. However,
channel activity persists in the presence of 60 mM Mg2-, a divalent cation concentration sufficient
to block cGMP-gated channels in vertebrate photoreceptors. This suggests a significant difference
in vertebrate and invertebrate cGMP-gated channel structure. The results of this study indicate that
cGMP-gated channels are the effectors in invertebrate phototransduction.
INTRODUCTION
Phototransduction in vertebrate retinal rod cells involves an enzyme cascade in which the
second messenger cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) directly controls the gating of cation
channels in the cell membrane (Fensenko et al., 1985) to regulate the photoreceptor potential. The
transduction cascade begins when light isomerizes the chromophore of rhodopsin (11-cis retinal)
and activates the GTP-binding protein, transducin. Activated transducin activates CGMP
phosphodiesterase, which lowers the concentration of cGMP in the cell, leading to the closing of
cation channels and hyperpolarization of the photoreceptor (Stryer, 1986).
Significant homology exists between the squid and vertebrate phototransduction cascades,
although it has been shown that light causes depolarization, not hyperpolarization, of squid (Loligo
pealei) photoreceptor cells (Pinto and Brown, 1977; Nasi and Gomez, 1992) and it is generally
