Fisher
FIGURE LEGENDS
Figure 1 A small flow tank designed to rest on a laboratory bench. A
mid-longitudinal section is shown. The trough, about 250 cm¬
in cross-sectional area, is of quarter-inch plexiglass, and the
return circuit of polyvinyl chloride pipe. Two arrays of drinking
straws, fixed with silicon sealant in removable plastic frames,
serve as upstream collimators. The entire assembly is supported
by the two wooden beams shown under the trough. Arrows give
the direction of flow. c, collimator; d, drain; f, fairing
plate; p, propellor; r, return circuit; s, screen; t, trough.
Figure 2
Diagram of the model cirral net. The cirri and rami are made
from flexible pipe cleaners, to allow rearrangement of configu¬
ration, and the setae are made from narrow gauge wire. Cirral
diameter at the net base is twice ramal diameter. Ramal setae
lengths run from 2.5x to lx ramal diameter. Typical net
dimensions are 7 cmx 11 cm. The model is attached to a plexi¬
glass plate, dimensions 7.05 cmx 5.35 cmx 0.30 cm, which mounts
on the drag transducer.
Figure 3
Drag transducer. The model attaches upside-down on the dowel, A.
A force on the cirral net stretches the spring-like mechanism, B.
Movement of 6 then withdraws the core of a linearly variable
differential transformer, C, to register a voltage change. This
change is linearly proportional (correlation coefficient for line
- 1.00) to change in force, and thus can be easily converted to
drag.
Figure 4
Area of the cirral net per barnacle body mass as a function of
body mass in Tetraclita rubescens, Balanus glandula, and Balanus
nubilus.
Figure 5
Relative area of the cirral net in the test barnacle B. nubilus
as a function of mainstream speed. Relative area of 1.00 corresponds
to 231.9 mm2. All standarderrors for relative area are less than
0.034.
Figure 6
Relative maximal width and height in the test barnacle B. nubilus.
Relative width of 1.00 corresponds to 23.6 mm, and relative
height of 1.00 corresponds to 17.2 mm. All standard errors for
relative length are less than 0.027.
Figure 7
Drag as a function of mainstream speed for the model. Points
fit the function D = 1.26 u2:33, where D is drag and U is speed,
in standard units. For (log U, log D), correlation coefficient -
0.96. Flags denote standard errors.
Figure 8 Drag coefficient as a function of Reynolds number for the model.
