INTRODUCTION
While most of the DDT residues found in the oceans were probably
transported there by wind and subsequent chemical fallout, DDT residue levels
in marine organisms in Monterey Bay, California (Risebrough et al., 1968) are
high enough to suggest that pesticides are also being carried directly into the
bay by drainage from adjacent farmlands. This suggestion is supported by
studies of Emerita analoga described in this paper.
The 100 mile long Salinas Valley is a rich agricultural region producing
annually large amounts of lettuce, broccoli, celery, dried beans, carrots.
sugar beets, and artichokes. Accompanying this large production is the
widespread use of DDT. For the past ten years over 125,000 pounds of DDT
each year has been sprayed on crops in the valley (Scott, 1969). The valley
is drained by the Salinas River which originates in the northern part of the
Los Padres National Forest and winds for 150 miles in a northwesterly direction
through the Salinas Valley and reaches Monterey Bay about 5 miles south of
Moss Landing. A sandbar across the mouth of the river prevents the shallow
river from directly emptying into Monterey Bay for a large part of the vear.
However, the river drains approximately 1000 square miles and during the
rainy season (December to April), the Salinas River rises and empties directly
into the bay. It is highly likely that DDT present in the top surface layer
of soil in the fields is carried into the river with some of the soil in
agricultural run-off. In addition, even larger amounts of DDT may be added
directly to the river during heavy rains in January and February when the
farmlands bordering the river are flooded. At one critical flood period in
February 1969, the river became a mile wide in some spots, while flooding
thousands of acres of farmland and emptying 110,000 cubic feet of water per
second into Monterey Bay (Monterey Peninsula Herald, February 25, 1969).
After the rainy season, the water level of the river gradually decreases and
167
