After the 12 hour incubation, the Emerita were taken out of the jars,
rinsed in a beaker of sea water for 30 seconds, and placed on paper towels
to dry off for 5 minutes. The wet weight of each sand crab was determined
to an accuracy of one milligram on a Mettler scale. Each Emerita was then
cut into small pieces with scissors and ground up with a hand homogenizer
in 10 mls of dioxan for 20 to 30 minutes to extract the CLDDT. The liquid
homogenate was poured into a test tube leaving the large granular material at
the bottom of the homogenizing tube. A 1.0 ml aliquot of the liquid homogenate
was placed into each of two scintillation vials containing 10 mls of Bray's
solution and counted for 1 minute in a Unilux II Scintillation Counter.
The quenching of radioactivity was corrected for and the actual disentegrations
per minute were calculated using an average of the counts per minute from
the two vials. The wet weight of each crab was used to determine the CDDT
content in ppb.
The results of the uptake experiments (Fig. 3a and b) show that Emerita
can concentrate large amounts of DDT (55x increase over initial concentration)
over a short period of time while freely swimming in water at ambient
DDT levels of 0.2 to 1.0 ppb. A similar increase in the rate of DDT uptake
with increasing initial DDT concentration was not observed in the Emerita
buried in the sand. This may be explained by one or more of the following
reasons. (1) Much of the C+DDT may have been adsorbed to the sand and unavailable
to the sand crabs. Samples of the water after incubation were counted in the
scintillation counter and although too close to background level to calculate
actual C-DDT concentrations, the counts in the jars with sand were always
less than the counts in the jars without sand. (2) The increased activity
of the Emerita swimming in the jar without sand may have placed them in more
continuous contact with C+4DDT in the water, increasing the opportunity for uptake.
(3) The higher rate of activity in the swimming sand crabs was doubtless
