-8
Figure Captions
Figure 1. Map of collection sites, coast of California.
A. Coyote Point, San Mateo, San Francisco Bay. Mud flats with some
rocks; wave action slight.
B. Fort Point, San Francisco. Animals collected from vertical concrete
sea wall below Golden Gate Bridge; moderate wave action.
Half Moon Bay. Animals collected from rocky area just north of
Pillar Point, not far from sewer outfall for towns of Princeton,
Miramar, and Half Moon Bay; moderate to strong wave action.
Sandy mud flats; no wave action.
Elkhorn Slough, Moss Landing.
Monterey Municipal Wharf, Monterey. Animals collected from rocks
immediately to right of wharf. Mixing with waters inside the
harbor present; moderate wave action.
Fisherman's Wharf, Monterey. Animals collected from rocks
immediately to the right of, and underneath, wharf. This region,
inside the small craft harbor, is in close proximity to some
300 boats; no wave action.
Mussel Point, Pacific Grove, site of Hopkins Marine Station.
Animals collected from intertidal rocks; moderate wave action,
H. Point Pinos, Pacific Grove, Animals collected within 30 ft. ofnt
mouth of Pacific Grove sewage treatment plant outfall; wave action
moderate to strong.
Carmel Bay. Animals collected from rocky-intertidal region, close
to City of Carmel sewage treatment plant outfall; moderate to
strong, wave action.
Point Sur, Monterey County. Animals collected from rocky-intertidal;
wave action moderate to strong.
K.
White's Point, Palos Verdes Peninsula, Los Angeles. Animals
collected on intertidal rocks directly inshore of mile-long
Los Angeles County sewer outfall; wave action moderate to strong.
Figure 2. Concentrations of trace elements in shells of California
molluscs (pom dry weight). Letters indicate collecting sites
shown in Fig. 1. Dashed lines indicate detection limits.
Figure 3. Concentrations of trace elements in bodies of California
molluscs (ppm dry weight). LLetters indicate collecting sites
shown in Fig. 1. Dashed lines indicate detection limits.
63
