Head Structures of Pherusa papillata
I,K. Berzins
11
within the cage. A steady current enters the dorsal side of the cage, at
the base of the setae, and is directed forward, exiting at the anterior apex
of the cage (Fig.26).
The bases of the setae of the first chaetiger, buried in the body wall,
are surrounded by a common membranous sheath(Fig.29). The setae spiral just
before they project externally. Between the setal bases, lying ventraltto the
internal setal sheath are two overlapping triangular sheaths (Fig.30) which
completely enclose many fine, slightly striated setae (Fig. 31). The same was
observed for the setae of the second and third setigerous somites, though-
they show slight differences in the positions of these extra bundles (Fig32 ).
The uppermost tips of the buried bundles protrude slightly outward (Fig. 33.)
producing slight bumps lataral to the main setal bundles, but they do not project
through the body wall.
The position of the head was observed only under laboratory conditions.
It was held at a diagonal (Fig. 28) with the ventral side directed downward and
forward, and with either the dorsal portions of the first few segments or
just the setae of the first segment exposed at the surface of the sand. The
meshes of the cephalic cage create an effective grid which does not allow
sand particles to enter. Placing the worms in different sizes of sand, the
setae adjusted the size of the grid accordingly and proved very effective in
keeping out particles. The worm occasionally withdrew its body into the sand,
leaving only the tips of the setae exposed, surrounding the cage with sand.
Again the grid was adjusted and kept the cavity clear of sand.
Slight disturbances, such as lightly touching the anterior regions
(especially touching the club-shaped and elongate papillae) or slight vibrations,
caused the head to retract quickly and the setae to close tightly together,
"cross-hatching"(Fig.34) at the distal ends, creating a sort of operculum
protecting the withdrawn head.
