Head Structures of Pherusa papillata
I.K. Berzins
﻿14
involved in locomotion but were held above the surface of the sand. The
ventral setae of the second and third segments acted as sweeps, shoving
sand posteriorly as the waves passed. The notopodial setae remained spread
and were not involved in locomotion. A slight furrow formed on the sand surface
as the animal moved forward.
The burrows seen in the laboratory are not permanent ones, and the worms
are able to change positions. In a large bowl of sand containing one worm,
three detritus-free areas were seen on the surface of the sand after several
days. Each was about 3.5 cm in diameter and seperatéd by about 1.2 cm. No
furrows connected the areas, indicating that the worms did not crawl out to
change positions or plow through the sand with the head still at the surface
(This can be done slightly, the worm inching forward a bit while buried in the
sand. The setae of the first segment are not used). Position change must have
occured beneath the sand surface. Burrowing was not observed beneath the sand,
but burrowing types of movements were observed at the surface. Remaining in
place, sinusoidal waves were sent both anteriorly and posteriorly. The posterior
portion, with the aid of extended neurosetal hooks, dislodged the sand beneath
it and worked its way under the surface. The notosetal fans remained spread
open and wére not usedfor burrowing. Anterior moving waves ceased replaced
by posterior moving peristaltic waves. The anterior region slid back and under
the sand.until all that remained exposed were the first few setigerous segments.
After covering the glass bowl, no new cleared areas formed. The worm r.
remained in one place with its head continuously at the surface.
Feeding with the palps apparently does not occure while the worms are
underneath the sand. A dish filled with sand from the Diopatra beds was
covered with a thin layer of crushed green glass beads, the bead particle
sizes being larger than the sand grains normally ingested. This prevented
