Results
Yellowfin, Thunnus albacares
The caecum takes up a large portion of the visceral cavity, lying ventral to the stomach
and dorsal to the liver (Fig. 2-3). It is composed of hundreds of pyloric fingers, blind tubules
lying in a parallel array (Fig. 3b). The pyloric fingers are grouped in bundles with open spaces
between each bundle. The entire organ is surrounded by a thin transparent mesentery that may
prevent it from moving around within the visceral cavity. The liver envelops the ventral anterior
portion of the caecum, covering a large surface area. It is difficult to separate the two due to this
close anatomical relationship. The caecum receives partially digested material from the pylorus
of the stomach (Fig. 2a) which divides into two smaller tubules as it enters the caecum. These
two tubules lead into the caecum and travel about halfway down its length before anastomosing
in the pyloric fingers which make up the bulk of the organ.
The caecum receives arterial blood from two of three branches of the coeliac artery (Fig.
2a). The first and largest branch runs along the center of the middle lobe of the liver, beneath the
stomach supplying both the middle and right liver lobes and the main caecal artery. The second
branch travels along the left lobe of the liver, first feeding the left gastric artery and then sending
smaller branches to the liver, caecum, gall bladder, spleen, and intestine. The third and final
branch of the coeliac feeds the right gastric artery and the right liver lobe. The caecum also
receives multiple arterial branches from each lobe of the liver. These branches divide into many
small arterioles upon entering the caecum. The arterial blood traveling through the caecum alsc
travels into the ventral stomach artery. This artery is part of a rete connecting the stomach to the
caecum (Fig. la). This rete is made up of many parallel arteries and veins and is the only
connection between the stomach and the caecum.
Venous blood from the stomach travels into the caecum through the ventral rête.
Immediately upon entering the caecum, the veins split into the multiple small parallel vessels
which make up the countercurrent array. From the caecum, the venous blood continues into
each of the three lobes of the liver and then out two efferent vessels, one on the right liver lobe
