on a cellular basis. The study also included a dissection and silicon injection of a bonito, Sarda
chiliensis, an ectothermic species in the same family as the tuna, for comparison.
Once the caecum blood supply was mapped out and the presence of a countercurrent heat
exchangers was determined in yellowfin and blackfin tuna, the extent of heat production was
assessed by enzymatic study. To determine the tissue metabolic capacity of the caecum, citrate
synthase (CS) activity was assayed. Citrate synthase, the rate limiting factor for the citric acid
cycle, is considered an enzymatic marker for aerobic metabolism. Heater tissues of scombroid
fish typically exhibit high levels aerobic activity (Tullis et al., 1991). Since metabolic activity
produces heat, it may be possible to gauge relative heat production according to CS activity. For
comparison, CS activity in another visceral organ, the liver, was measured. What resulted was a
picture of the caecum as a site of countercurrent heat exchange within the yellowfin
Materials and Methods
Four yellowfin tuna, referred to as YFTI, YFT2, YFT3, and YFT4, and two bonito, were
obtained from the Tuna Research and Conservation Center in Monterey, California. Deaths
occurred either from anesthesia or by pithing. Yellowfin and bonito used for dissection/injection
were either fresh or previously frozen.
Two blackfin tuna, were caught on longline in the Gulf of Mexico and frozen before
dissection.
Silicon Injections
Injections were performed using Microfil injection compounds MV-120 (blue), MV-130
(red) and MV-117 (orange). Components were mixed in a 5 (color): 4 (diluent): 1 (catalyst)
ratio. Curing time was approximately twenty minutes depending on the core temperature of each
fish and the ambient temperature in the lab.
The desired vessels were first found through dissection. A catheter attached to a Cole-
Pamer three-way stopcock was inserted as far as possible into the vessel of choice and the
system was flushed with sea water in order to rinse out blood and test for leaks or blockages.
