These vessels both have venous blood surrounding them. The injection was not entirely
complete and the venous / arterial relationship could not be determined for the entire caecum. For
those regions that were doubly injected, however, it was observed that the venules and arterioles
continued together into the farthest regions of the caecum.
Histology also reveals that parallel venules and arterioles are present between each
pyloric finger and are found in varying numbers throughout the caecum. The histological
sections also depict the countercurrent vasculature within the caecum. Slides of the
countercurrent area show the clear parallel nature of the venules and arterioles (Fig. 8a and b).
Arterioles can be distinguished by their larger proportion of smooth muscle and their small
diameter relative to the amount of that muscle. The venules appear to be more flexible than the
arterioles, often conforming to match the local arrangement of arterioles. Each pyloric finger has
a surface area made larger by epithelial loops projecting into the lumen of the finger (Fig. 8c).
Mucous secreting goblet cells are present along the epithelial lining of each pyloric finger (Fig.
8d).
Blackfin, Thunnus atlanticus
The caecum of the blackfin, and its relationship to the other organs in the viscera, is very
similar to vellowfin (Fig. 9). The blood supply is the same as that diagrammed for the yellowfin
(Fig. 4). The only two apparent differences are in the caecum's relationship with the liver and
the organization of its arterioles.
The liver of the blackfin is tightly bound by tissue connections to the caecum, making it
more difficult to view the arterial and venous connections between the two. The vessels in the
countercurrent region are less densely packed than those of yellowfin and appear to be more
delicate (Fig. 10a-c). The arterioles in the countercurrent region show less organization than in
the vellowfin although they are laid out in the same fashion; with the largest population at the
center where the ventral stomach vein feeds the venous blood to the caecum.
