water temperature (Block, pers. comm.), however little has been done to uncover the role of the
caecum in heat production within the tuna. It may well be that research on the caecum has halted
due to a lack of information about the general anatomy of the organ, and an uncertainty as to its
specific function.
In most fish, the pyloric caeca are appendages of the anterior intestine and are not
considered to be a separate organ. The caeca are finger-like projections that arise from the
intestine and end blindly. The projections typically number between 1 and 100. Caeca appear to
function mainly in fat absorption (Greene, 1913), but in some fish have also been shown to
participate in water absorption (Boge et al., 1988). The caeca of most fish contain pancreatic
tissue between the pyloric fingers that produce many digestive enzymes such as trypsin and
chitinase (Jobling, 1995), however this has not been documented in tuna. In scombrid fish such
as the bluefin and the related species of the Thunnus genus, the caecum is classifiable as an
organ. The caecal mass dominates the viscera, often weighing in as the largest organ along the
digestive tract (Gibbs and Collette, 1967). While the role of the fish pyloric caeca in fat
absorption has been most recently supported by Jobling, no such studies could be found for the
tuna. Histological studies performed during this project show a high degree of lipids within the
tuna caecum suggesting that the general role of the caecum in fat absorption is the same.
Knowledge about the bluefin viscera is extensive despite the lack of information about
the caecum. The presence of countercurrent heat exchangers within the bluefin tuna has been a
subject of much interest because of the migratory nature of the fish. The bluefin is typically
found in temperate zones where water is cold and heat conserving strategies are important to its
survival. Studies on the visceral anatomy of tropical relatives of the bluefin, the yellowfin,
blackfin, and longtail have never been done. While all three tropical species employ
endothermic strategies, their visceral anatomy has never been of much interest. There is a
considerable dirth of information about the visceral anatomy of tropical species of tuna.
In the bluefin the viscera is thermally isolated from the rest of the fish body by five
countercurrent heat exchanging retia (Fudge and Stevens, 1996). The arterial portions of these
