Abstract
The viscera of bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus, are warm, and internal temperatures as
high as 25째C have been recorded in 5째C water (Block, pers. comm.). The source of this heat and
the visceral site of vascular heat conservation are not clear. Measurements taken after feeding of
bluefin implicate the caecum as the warmest visceral organ, however, little is known about the
general anatomy of the tuna caecum or its method of heat production. Specimens of yellowfin,
Thunnus albacares, and blackfin, Thunnus atlanticus, were used to study the anatomy, histology
and aerobic capacity of the tuna caecum. Anatomical comparisons were also made to the bonito,
Sarda chiliensis, an ectothermic relative of the tuna. Injections of silicon into the caecum
vasculature detected a parallel array of arteries and veins throughout the organ. Measurements of
citrate synthase activity, an enzymatic indicator of tissue metabolic capacity, show a high degree
of caecum metabolic activity, around 20 units/g tissue at 25째C. This value is 4-5 fold greater
than tuna white anaerobic muscle, but not as high as the aerobic red muscle. The high heat
contribution from aerobic activity, along with that contributed by digestive processes within the
caecum and stomach, may be able to account for much of the heat production within the viscera.
The endothermic nature of the organ and the parallel architecture of the vasculature suggest that
countercurrent heat exchange can occur. An increased visceral temp would lead to faster
digestion and provide a continuous source of fuel for the tuna's high metabolic needs.
Introduction
While performing visceral temperature measurements on bluefin tuna, Francis Carey
discovered the warmest recorded temperatures in the pyloric caecum, at an average of 15.7
above water temperature (Carey, 1984). He went on to implicate the caecum as the major site of
visceral heat production, suggesting that the heat originates from a combination of digestive and
metabolic processes within the caecum. Carey hypothesized that high heat production in
combination with heat conserving anatomy within the viscera would lead to faster digestion and
allow the migrating bluefin to take advantage of a sporadic food supply. Since Carey's study
archival satellite tag data has recorded visceral temperatures as high as 25째C above ambient
