and one on the middle liver lobe. The arterial vessels leading from the liver to the caecum lie
adjacent to the venous vessels from the caecum to the liver, but no well developed retia, like the
one between the stomach and caecum, are present. A general diagram of yellowfin circulation
based on dissections of the four injections in shown in figure 4.
Extensive vasculature is seen in the center of the dorsal surface of the caecum (Fig. 5).
These blood vessels appear to branch out into smaller vessels which continue throughout the
caecum. The first injection was performed in order to achieve a better understanding of the
vasculature within the caecum. Injection of YFTI led to a complete venous injection of the
caecum. This was confirmed by dissecting into the sinus venosus and noting that the silicon had
entered the atrium of the heart. Dissection of the caecum revealed a high degree of venous
vascularization. Many small venules run throughout the caecum down to the tip of the organ
(Fig. 6a). These vessels often appear in bundles, but no clear pattern is seen in most of the
caecum. Where the ventral stomach vein enters the caecum, there is extensive branching of the
vessels and an array of tightly packed venules can be seen running parallel to each other (Fig. 6b
and c). A closer inspection identified a number of empty arterioles amongst the venules. In
order to see the relationship between the arterioles and venules, dual injections were attempted.
The second and third injections were successful arterial injections permitting a clear
picture of the arterial arrangement. A similar setup of the arteries was discovered, with the
arterioles branching throughout the individual pyloric fingers of the caecum. As observed in the
venous injection, the same parallel architecture of arterioles can be seen where the ventral
stomach vein enters the caecum (Fig. 6b and c).
The injection of YFT4 was a successful double injection of arteries and veins. The
injection resulted in the conclusive identification of a countercurrent array of vessels. As the
arteries approach from the top of the caecum, forking off the first branch of the coeliac artery,
the venules from the bottom of the caecum meet up to form a parallel network surrounding the
pyloric tubules (Fig. 7a). For the first time, I could identifity the two main arterial vessels, both
extensions of the coeliac artery, feeding the countercurrent region of the caecum (Fig. 7b).
