possess this rete in their caeca, suggesting that this characteristic may be true for all tuna. The
fact that the bonito lacks such a rete may mean that this caecum anatomy is limited to
endothermic fish. The documented parallel network of vessels running all throughout the organ
is well developed and highly organized. Similar countercurrent architecture was observed in the
red muscle of the injected tuna. The caecum is perfused with cool oxygenated arterial blood
arriving from the gills. As it meets up with the warm venous blood carrying metabolic and
digestive heat produced within the caecum, heat exchange can occur. The countercurrent nature
of the vessels allows the heat to be transferred with the highest efficiency.
The rete in the caecum is receiving cool arterial blood from both the gills and the liver.
The countercurrent flow of blood in the vessels leading from the caecum to the liver and vice
versa suggests that little heat transfer is occurring between the caecum and liver. The venous
blood the caecum receives from the stomach passes first through the ventral stomach rete which,
depending on the temperature gradient between the two organs, may or may not be conserving
heat in the stomach. Regardless, heat remains where it is produced. What results is the complete
isolation of the caecum from the surrounding organs. Any heat increase in the caecum can only
come from the processes taking place within the tissue. The only exception would be conductive
heat processes between the organs. The liver probably receives the largest portion of this
conductive heat due to its close relationship to the caecum, which would account for the warm
liver temperatures observed by Carey (1984).
The isolation of the caecum from the rest of the viscera means that any heat produced by
the caecum will remain in the caecum, but it also means that the high caecum temperatures
recorded by Carey in his bluefin study must be accounted for by heat produced mainly in the
caecum (although some conductive heat transfer may be occurring between the caecum and other
visceral organs). Citrate synthase assays have shown that the caecum is a highly aerobic tissue
The average value of 21.4 units/g tissue is comparable to values around 27 units/g tissue
measured for swordfish red muscle (Tullis et al., 1991). Values that showed the most variation
amongst vellowfin caeca were most likely the result of variations in enzyme concentration along
