The one bonito injection performed was not successful because the caecum was too
decomposed. Most anatomical observations were performed on freshly dead bonito that were
dissected without injection in order to learn about the general visceral makeup.
Enzymes
Assays were performed on caecum and liver tissue from seven yellowfin. The average
value recorded for caecum tissue is 21.4 units/g tissue + 1.9. The range of values for the caeca
of these fish is between 11.88 units and 30.06 units (Table 2). There is significant variation
between all seven of the caecum tissues sampled. Liver samples resulted in an average of 2.36 +
18 units and a range between 1.69 units and 2.85 units (Table 2). Liver samples also show
significant differences amongst fish, but these differences were much less than those recorded
for the caecum. Liver assays were used both for comparison and as a control. Caecum values
are approximately 9-fold larger than liver values for each of the seven fish (Fig. 13a).
Assays run on two blackfin show an average value of 20.27 +0.1 activity/g tissue (Table
2) with no significant difference between the two samples.
To account for the differences seen amongst caecum CS activity of fish, a table of
historical information about each fish was compiled (Table 4). The regression plot of fish mass
ys. caecal CS activity (Fig. 13b) shows a trend toward increasing activity with increasing body
size, however there is no significant correlation. A regression plot performed on days in
captivity vs. caecal CS activity (Data not shown) also shows no significant correlation.
Discussion
My observations of the gross anatomical organization of the circulatory anatomy
indicates an extensive countercurrent heat exchange system throughout the tuna caecum. The
presence of a rete combined with the high degree of aerobic metabolism within the caecum both
support this conclusion.
There is no doubt that the anatomical requirements for countercurrent heat exchange exist
in the tuna caecum. Both silicon injections and histological studies reveal the presence of a rête
within the caecum. Injections and histology also showed that both the yellowfin and the blackfin
