retia arise from the main artery that supplies the viscera, the coeliac artery. The coeliac artery
branches off of the dorsal aorta just below the posterior epibranchials (Gibbs and Collette, 1967).
It is unclear where the venous branches originate, however it is known that they travel through
the retia, into the liver and out two efferent vessels, collecting the venous blood in the sinus
venosus.
The visceral retia thermally isolate the viscera by facilitating countercurrent heat
exchange. Heat being produced in the viscera, through digestive and metabolic processes, is
carried in the blood through the veins. The heat is transferred to the adjacent arteries bringing in
cool blood from the gills, allowing the venous blood to be cooled before it enters the liver and
heart and retaining the heat within the viscera (Block, pers. comm.). The liver, does not receive
a significant amount of the conserved heat (except perhaps by conduction), as it is on the cold
side of the heat exchanger (Carey, 1984). The bluefin retia are well diagrammed by Eschricht
and Müller, and have been studied in an effort to better understand the endothermic nature of the
fish (Fudge and Stevens, 1996). Despite the knowledge of the bluefin visceral retia, little is
known about the blood supply to the caecum or its role in heat production.
Because of the difficulty and expense of obtaining bluefin specimens for study,
two congeneric species, the yellowfin, Thunnus albacares, and the blackfin, Thunnus atlanticus,
were used to study the caecum. The yellowfin and blackfin tuna are tropical species which,
while considered endothermic, do not display the same degree of endothermy as the bluefin.
While it is known that both possess well developed countercurrent heat exchangers associated
with their swimming muscle, an in depth anatomical study of their viscera, like that of Eschricht
and Müller (1835), has never been done.
Ihypothesized that the yellowfin and blackfin would share similar anatomical features
with the bluefin in the form of retia leading from the coeliac artery to each of the visceral organs.
After studying the gross anatomy of the yellowfin and blackfin, I then injected silicon rubber
into the vessels leading to and from the viscera to determine the perfusion of the caecum and the
surrounding organs. Histological studies were also performed to better understand the caecum
