The blackfin caecum is histologically similar to the yellowfin. The pyloric fingers of the
blackfin are smaller and many more can be seen at the same magnification in the same amount of
space as the vellowfin (Fig. 11a), however, they display a similar organization of the epithelial
tissue. At higher magnification, the goblet cells are easily recognizable as are the different type
of cells that make up the epithelial lining (Fig. 11b). They appear to share the same
countercurrent array of arterioles and venules that could not be positively identified without a
dual injection (Fig. 11c). There appear to be no significant anatomical or histological differences
between the yellowfin and the blackfin.
BLKI vielded a successful arterial injection, but the venous injection failed to get past
the heart. At this point, I realized that an injection into the lateral cutaneous vein after injection
into the lateral cutaneous artery would never be successful because it would always get blocked
in the heart. In order to solve the problem, BLK2 was injected first into the lateral cutaneous
vein in an attempt to fill the venous side. Unfortunately, the catheter was inserted into the lateral
cutaneous artery rather than the vein. In an effort to salvage the injection, the fish was opened
viscerally. The injection could not be saved as the viscera was already too decomposed. Only
BLKI was used for anatomical study.
Bonito, Sarda chiliensis
The bonito viscera is laid out much like the tuna with slight differences in the size and
structure of the organs (Fig. 12a). The liver of the bonito is almost inseparable from the caecum.
The bonito caecum lacks any of the fine structured parallel vasculature of the yellowfin and
blackfin although it is highly vascularized (Fig. 12b).
The blood supply to the bonito viscera follows the same model as that laid out for the
vellowfin (Fig. 4). The coeliac artery has three main branches which send blood to all three
lobes of the liver, the stomach, caecum, and all the other visceral organs. It is not clear whether
any retia are present in those connections.
11
