the tissue. Fish number seven (Fig. 14), showed low activity in both the caecum and the liver,
suggesting faulty sampling procedure or damaged tissue. Even with the variation amongst
samples, when compared to liver values obtained for the same fish, the aerobic capacity of the
caecum seems even greater. Why is it that two visceral organs should be so different in their
metabolic activities? How does the tuna benefit from an aerobically active caecum?
The histological slides revealed a high degree of lipid within the caecal tissues of
vellowfin and blackfin. If indeed the caecum is the main site of lipid digestion, the tuna would
reap an evolutionary benefit by maintaining an aerobically active caecum. The tuna requires an
immense amount of fuel to power their most aerobically active tissue, the red muscle. The
muscle receives this fuel in the form of ATP produced aerobically. The production of ATP
requires 2-carbon substrates supplied by lipid metabolism (Tullis et al., 1991). The caecum
would be responsible for supplying this lipid fuel. The lipid would be absorbed into the venules
amongst the pyloric fingers of the caecum and sent to the liver where it would be stored for
future mobilization. The liver is a well known site of lipid storage and it is logical that this lipid
would come from the caecum (Jobling, 1995).
Assuming that the caecum is a site of lipid absorption, it may be possible to predict the
major sources of heat within the organ. While heat is a known by-product of metabolic activity,
this activity alone cannot account for all the heat produced in the caecum. The remaining heat
must be supplied by the enzymatic processes involved in fat digestion. Carey predicted that in a
20kg portion of food the hydrolysis of fat and protein would release approximately 13Okcal of
heat and account for about 1/3 of the heat increase within the visceral organs (Carey, 1984). He
does not predict anything for the heat produced in the caecum, however, a similar proportion of
heat production is probable due to fat hydrolysis alone.
What remains to be answered is how the tuna would benefit from countercurrent heat
exchange within the caecum. By conserving heat produced within the caecum, the tuna would
benefit from elevated enzymatic activity. The faster enzymes can work, the faster food can be
digested. For migrating fish like the yellowfin and bluefin, faster digestion could mean more
14
