Results:
Int.1 is a small cell located in the saddle-shaped groove just
rostral to the tentacular lobe on the dorsal side of the Pleural
ganglion (fig la). In functioning networks, this cell was identified by
its characteristic bursting firing pattern. Under normal conditions,
the cell spikes up to 40 times per burst and its interburst interval is
at least as long as the bursting phase: the cell bursts with a
maximum frequency of 15 per minute in large animals. (Thompson,
personal communication) Though it was not possible to find this cell
in every preparation, of the 20 preparations in which we did record
from a cell that satisfied the specifications, we never observed à
second cell in the area that also had the characteristic bursting
pattern. This confirms previous observations by Stuart Thompson
and Brad Jones (personal communications). Although we completed
the majority of our experiments within 5 hours of the original
dissection, in one experiment we were able to hold the regularly
firing Int.1 at 7.5 hours after the dissection, and even then, we
noticed no physiological abnormalities.
Low Calcium Manipulation
Ganglia were bathed in nominal 0 Ca saline in order to disrupt
the network by altering the time course of the various cellular
mechanisms which depend upon free Ca. In four out of five
experiments in which healthy ganglia were bathed in 0 Ca saline, the
regular firing pattern of the swimming CPG was disrupted, but did
not stop firing altogether. (figure 3b) Reintroduction of normal saline
had the immediate effect of halting all firing. The disruption was
reversed in all four instances by leaving the ganglia to soak in the
normal saline for longer than twenty minutes.
In an extracellular recording from a regularly bursting RInt.I,
the 0 CA manipulation disrupted regular bursting. Bursts became
longer, and happened much less frequently. This erratic pattern
continued for 50 minutes, at which time normal ASW was
reintroduced. Within 2 minutes, all spiking activity had halted. By
17 minutes after perfusion, regular bursting had resumed.
We sought to study this phenomenon by recording from Int.I
intracellularly. After at least fifteen minutes of regular bursting, we
introduced zero nominal free calcium saline (0 Ca) to the ganglia. We
