2» The cell could be driven by an endogenous Post Inhibitory
Rebound mechanism (Jones 1986); a mechanism by which cells fire
when they are released from inhibition. It could be that the
hyperpolarized phases of the voltage oscillations that we saw are
caused by inhibitory input from the antagonistic Int.l and Int.2.
this case, the depolarized phases could be accounted for easily by à
simple absence of inhibition.
3» The cell could be driven by excitatory input from another
cell in the network. In this case, the depolarized phase would be
explained by excitatory (positive inward current) input, and the
hyperpolarized phase would be explained as the absence of
excitation.
The voltage oscillation is probably not due to either the first or
second mechanisms. The voltage increase is marked with a series of
fast jumps in the voltage, yielding an irregular recording. These
sudden jags in the data trace can easily be explained as direct
consequences of the opening of receptor channels. Since these
quantal jumps in voltage are in a depolarizing direction, and since
several of them occur near the normal spike initiating threshold of
this cell, they are most easily explained as excitatory input. In
contrast, the hyperpolarized phase of the oscillation is relatively
smooth, indicating that the ipsps, if existent, are quite a bit smaller,
and thus have less of an effect, than the excitatory input.
The question that remains is, what sort of mechanism excités
Int.1 in this periodic fashion? Thompson (personal communication)
tested Int.1 for excitatory input from the antagonistic Int.1, and
Int.2, and found none. However, he did observe an electrical
connection between Int.2 and Int.1. It could be that the depolarized
phase of the voltage that we see in Int.l is due to passive current
spread from a spiking Int.2. If that is the case, then, contrary to the
current model of this network, Int.2 can fire rhythmic bursts of
action potentials without the input of Int.1. However, in this case, it
would be doubtful that Int.2 habitually drives Int.l because
Thompson (personal communication) has made several simultaneous
recordings from Int.1 and Int.2, and has observed that Int.l
generally begins bursting before Int.2. It could instead, be that Int.l
is being driven by other, as of yet unidentified, cells in this network.
