Discussion
The principal finding of these studies is that the patterned
rhythmic electrical activity in the Melibe central pattern generator
that is responsible for the character of the Melibe swimming
behavior can occur in the absence of spiking activity in at least one
Interneuron one. We can see from fig 2, and fig 3 that rhythmic
voltage oscillations continue in the soma of Int.l in the absence of
voltage spikes. Since neither the temporary introduction of HiDi, noi
of the 0 Ca salines permanently destroys the normal propagating
action of spikes along excitable membrane, we can conclude that
these voltage oscillations are not merely due to passive current
spread from another, active part of the cell (such as the axon hillock)
and that the oscillations really do happen in the absence of spikes in
this cell.
The mechanisms that are responsible for these voltage
oscillations have a large influence on the bursting behavior of the cell
under normal conditions. First of all, we can tell that the
mechanisms are operating in the normally bursting cell by observing
the cell while the whole ganglia is being bathed in a Hi Di saline.
During that experiment, the voltage oscillation is incrementally
revealed as the number of spikes per burst decreases; the current
flow that causes the oscillations is present in the bursting cell.
Secondly, the size of the oscillations indicates that they play a
significant role in any spiking activity of the cell since the amplitude
of the voltage swings is at least 80 per cent of the sub (spike
initiating) threshold zone. By understanding the mechanisms
responsible for these observed voltage fluctuations, we will
understand something about the mechanism that controls the
patterned firing activity of Int.1.
There are three possible mechansims, any or all of which could
contribute to the observed voltage oscillations in Int.1.
1» Int.1 could be an endogenous burster; some property of the
cell itself could be sufficient to cause the voltage to vary periodically.
Such cells are common in molluscan ganglia (Smith and Thompson
1987), and though their pattern is usually dependent upon the
occurrence of action potentials, that an endogenous voltage oscillator
could function without the aid of action potentials is conceivable
(Strumwasser 1968).
