recorded the transmembrane voltage fluctuation of Int.l while
soaking in 0 Ca for 20 minutes. Again, the presence of 0 Ca disrupted
the normal bursting action of Int.1, but bursting did not halt until
ASW was reintroduced to the preparation (fig 2). At this point, an
oscillating voltage was recorded in the absence of action potentials
(fig 2d).
The oscillations appear to be following the same rhythmic
pattern as the bursts of action potentials that had just been silenced.
The furthest hyperpolarized Int.1 becomes during normal bursting is
approximately -55my. Under normal circumstances, the cell begins
firing when the voltage reaches -40mv. That is, an increase of 15 mV
is almost always enough to cause the cell to fire. The oscillation
range seen here is about 12 my, 4/5 of the normal sub-threshold
zone. The oscillations are not smooth fluctuations in voltage, but
rather are marked by sudden quantal jumps in voltage which occuf
in concurrence with the depolarizing phase of the oscillations.
Hi Divalent Saline Manipulation
To monitor the effects on int.1 of decreasing the efficacy of
multisynaptic connections in the network, we bathed the ganglia in
HiDi saline. Such a saline is believed to decrease the strength of each
monosynaptic connection, and thus by a multiplicative effect,
substantially lower the probability of making consistent
multisynaptic connections, without significantly influencing the
spike initiating threshold voltage of individual cells (Getting and
Willows 1974).
We bathed the ganglia in HiDi while recording intracellularly
from the regularly bursting Int.1 once. Within 7 minutes of
perfusion, RInt.1 went from regularly bursting, to quiescent. In
contrast to the 0 CA experiments, reintroduction of ASW was not
necessary in order to halt all spiking activity. The individual bursts
progressively shortened until all spiking halted altogether. As each
burst began comprising only a very few spikes, an underlying wave
of depolarization upon which the spikes had been riding became
apparent. In the complete absence of spiking, the voltage oscillations
continued (fig 3). Although the depolarized phase of these
oscillations had quantal jumps in voltage associated with them, the
jags" on the data trace were less obvious than the ones present after
low calcium perfusions. This effect was reversed by reintroduction
of ASW.
