Introduction
Central Pattern Generators have been studied in a number of
different species (see Getting 1983). These rhythmically active
neural circuits often drive coordinated behaviors that are essential to
the survival of the organisms in which they occur. Some CPGs, such
as the ones that control the swimming behaviors of Tritonia and
Melibe, are thought to be simple enough to be studied
reductionistically; that is, it may be possible to account for the
electrical output of these circuits by appealing to the intrinsic
properties and interconnectivities of specific component cells.
such a reductionistic analysis turns out to be possible, these CPGS
may someday give us insight into the functioning of a set of much
more complex neural pattern generators. Perhaps some of the
fundamental properties of simple CPGs will be found to be elemental
in the workings of the neural networks that underlie many human,
motor and cognitive, behaviors.
In this paper, we will describe a continuation of the work done
by Stuart Thompson (Personal Communication) on the CPG that
drives the swimming behavior of the nudibranch mollusk Melibe
leonina. We consider this network to be uniquely interesting for at
least two reasons. First, unlike many simple CPGs (see Getting 1983),
it generates a seemingly regular output that does not fatigue in the
absence of proprioceptive feed back. In fact, it takes a specific
stimulus to halt this CPG (Thompson, personal communication).
Second, this CPG apparently consists of a very few cells, each one
contributing uniquely to the generator, and each one being essential
to the behavior of the network. (Thompson, Personal Communication)
In contrast, the output of many of the more studied CPGs is due to an
integration of distinct groups of cells, each group pooling the similar
outputs of its various members to produce a united effect on the
function of the network. In these networks, not every cell is crucial
to the overall behavior; often ablation of a single cell does not affect
the network much at all. (Getting 1983). Because of the uniqueness
of the Melibe CPG, it is possible that the mechanisms that are
responsible for its behavior are also distinct from the general
mechanisms that have been shown to play key roles in the
functioning of other CPGs.
Thompson has identified four of the component cells of this
Melibe CPG (figure 1, Personal Communication). The current theory
is that the four are arranged bilaterally in the central ganglion, two
