FIGURE LEGENDS
Figure 1. Fins up posture. Uhen ortented with its anterior end into
a waten curnent of 30 cm/s and fasteo, a sand dab elevates its posterion
(both dorsal and ventral) fins in what is termed the pheotaxtic response,
Fin elevation allous a fish to maintain a steady position in a cucrent,
due to the elatonship:P
See Ueland, 1984
aboue above belou belou'
for a biomechantcal analusis.
Eiguce 2. Fin musculature. 2a) The in situ ortentation of the
myotome-insenting muscles is depicted (see arrow). 2b) Tyotome¬
insenting museles (skin-insenting museles cemoved). The arrangements
of the bones and muscles are illustrated. Note the orientation of the
long fibers.
Figure 3. Fast contoactions. 3a) Traces of isometoic tension
elicited by shocks of increasing strength as recorded on the oscilto¬
scope. The top (horizontal) trace depicts baseline of shock strength
and the blips on the left indicate stimulus stoength measured in volts.
The bottom shous isometric tension measured in mg. Note that peak
contraction occurs in 10 ms.
3b)Isometoie tension reeoded from
a muscle before and after the shont fibens ane excised. 3e) The
chaot peconds that correspond to the oscilloscope traces of 3b. The
top cecord monitors the stimulus, while the bottom record monitors
tension. Single shocks elicited the twitches shown. Note that the
muscle was stretched after cutting, and this mag have resulted in
recordings of falsely greater tension in the "long fibers onlq" record.
Eigure 4. Contraction amplitude varies with stimulus frequency.
Aa) Uinect stimulation of the muscle. Tetani ape not completelu
fused at 200 Hz though chant recondings indicate fusion. This
discrepancy is due to the chart recorder pesponding at too lou a
frequency to accurately record unfused tetani. High gain oscilloscope
traces (not illustrated) show the unfused nature of the tetant.
4b) Indirect stimulation of nerve. Nerve shocks produce fused
tetani at lou frequeney stimuli.
Figures 5 and 6.
The top trace monitons the curnent that is passed
to shock the muscle or nerve, and also indicates the 0 mU level. The
middle trace monitor membrane potential. The lowest trace nepresents
isometrie tension.
Figuge 5. End-plate potenttals. 5a) Stimulation thoough nerve.
Junetion potentials in pesponse to shocks are illustrated.
5b) Several junctionppotentials ane reconded. Note the absence of
contraction even though threshold is reached, and note the discrepancies
in rise time of the various e.p.p.s. 5c) Stimulation via injecting
current through the intracellular microelectrode. Note the difference
in decay time with different modes of stimulation (Sa ys. 5c).
Figure 6. E.P.P.s and contraction: Contraction amplitude varies
with the number and frequency of stimuli. Tension output is sharply
dependent on the number (four in óa vs. twelve in ób) and frequencu
(200 Hz in ób us. 400 Hz in 6c) of administered shocks. Note again
that e.p.p.s hold at a steady level, failing to depolarize further.
