C
FIGURE LEGEND
Figure 1. Quantification of the Eymmepedia's reactions in the
bidassay. O m na exn, same as cantral with seawater 1
arm af zeastar wraps aver tube feet; 2 retraction et
arm, fallawed by streching aut af tube feet 3slight
arm curl; 4 = curl seen in "3", follewed by lifting and
halding arm vertically: S - strang curl af arm; a ever
tighter curl, followed by starfish meving away from area.
Ce ganaliculatum cames in contact with a Eyenemedia tube
Figure
fast at its anterier and and hegins to turn away.
Cw camaliculatum is proveked by Fyenmpedia tube fect from
Figure 3.
the anterier and, resulting in the snail lifting up it
shell and running away, sometimes secreting the yelle
hypsbrancial subztange at the same t.
After repeated pesterier provecation with a Fymnapadia
Figure 4.
tube foot. Cy canaliculatum begins to spin its shell back
and farth and thrawz itzelf forward in a zamersaulting
metion while secreting the hymchranchial substande.
Frevecation centinuz after C gamaliculatum turns itself
Fig
ayer, and the snail retracts mest of the way inteits
shell, pulses aut mere af the yellow substance, and pulls
all way back inte ithel 1.
Cy ganaliculatum is attacked on a vertical surface from
Figura 6.
the pesterior and hy a Fyanapadia tube fect causing the
mnail to run up the substratum.
Ea gamaliculatum displaym the substratum release respense
Figure 7.
after Being pravaked Trem the anteriar end an a ver tical
surface by a Myanmpadia tube foct.
Fallauin sustatu alase.  aaliculatum land
Figure.
itz back and tries ta rightitslt.
Cy canaliculatum is proveked by a tube foot before being
Figure
able to right itself and it quickly pulses aut the yella
substanze and retracts inte itz sheil.
mach paint an the graph is an average af the ameunt cr
Figure 10.
vellow substance secreted by each group af snails within
the four seperate tanks thraughaut the testing per iad.
The visually determined ameunts based an the yelicwmes
af the mixture were quantified using the scale deserid
in the Materials and Mathads zectien of this paper.
Wach peint an the graph is an average af the reactier
Figure 11.
displayed by Exenmpadia to the yellow substande secreted
hy sach greup af snails within the four seperate tan
throughout the testing peried. The visually qualitied
