changed, the sandy pattern was never lost, again suggesting a change in
the melanophores rather than in the iridophores. However, since
fridophores are less densely packed in the pattern spots, the lightened
areas are not as large or white as those of a rocky fish. The histograms
of the sandy fish acclimating to rock Illustrate this point by showing
little change in the spread of gray values af ter the acclimation and show
only a general darkening (see Figure 15.)
It is interesting that there is a basic pattern expressed by all
sanddabs. This pattern, which can be used so effectively to adapt to new
substrates by increasing and decreasing contrast, gives any sanddab that
lands on a coarse graîned substrate a chance to match adequate ly until
the final pattern can be perfected, if the fish remains on that substrate.
Also, this pattern does not interfere with matching to a fine grained
substrate. The pattern is advantageous for a rocky fish because rocky
substrate is not 100% rock; it is composed of rock, gravel, broken
shells, and sand patches. Fish that possess this pattern can adapt to all
of these quickly as they move about the rocky substrate and are likely to
be selected for. Sandy patterned fish possess aspects of this easily
adaptible pattern as well, showing that perhaps these fish are migratory
and move over a variety of substrates, or that their life cycle may
expose them to different grains of substrates at different stages of
development. The grain of a sandy substrate to a tiny, newly-settled
fish may be relatively large, so the adaptable pattern set on a small
scale serves the tiny fish well.
Since rocky fish acclimating to sand matched the sand better than
sandy fish acclimating to rock matched the rock, it would seem that
rocky fish show a much greater ability to change than sandy fish (See
Figures 9 &ap; 10) However, there is a general trend for the fish in my
experiment to become more sandy. Both control groups displayed an
increase in sandiness af ter 8 days. This could be the result of one or a
