characteristic white spots and are sparsely distributed over the rest of
the fish. On a sandy fish, these iridophores are much more evenly
distributed, with only loose clusters of iridophores at the characteristic
spot sites. On the rocky fish, the melanophores highlight the white
irridophore spots by being densely packed in the areas between the spots
and by being sparsely distributed over the spots. On the sandy fish, the
melanophores are evenly distributed among the iridophores. It is not
exactly clear whether these areas of densely packed pigment structures
contain a high density of cells, a high concentration of pigments, or both.
It is also not clear whether areas of sparse distibution of pigment
structures contain a low density of cells, a low concentration of
pigments, or a combination of the two.
When a rocky fish acclimates to sand, it lightens the dark areas of
its pattern and darkens the white spots to achieve an even tone. This can
be seen in the histograms of the rocky fish before and after acclimation
to sand. The histogram before the acclimation shows a wide spread of
gray values, whereas the histogram af ter the acclimation shows a much
narrower range of values, much like the histogram of the sandy substrate
(see Figure 14) The fish, however, does not lose its blotchy pattern,
only its contrast. This suggests that the pattern change of the 8 day
acclimation was a change in the melanophores, and not a rearrangement
of the iridophores. Whether the fish is actually decreasing its total
number of melanophores in the dark areas and increasing the number of
melanophores over the iridophore spots, or is merely adjusting existing
melanophores is not certain. It is also not clear whether the irridophore
pattern is completely permanent or if it can show plasticity after
acclimation longer than 8 days.
Asandy fish acclimating to rock shows the reverse type of response
of a rocky fish acclimating to sand. The iridophore spots become lighter
and the area between the spots becomes darker. Although contrast was
