C
combination of several factors. Perhaps the substrates in both tanks
were actually "sandter" than the substrates in the field. Overcrowding or
the dict of oquid and musoclo may have pomchow decreased rocky pattern
stability. Since sandy fish were collected 10 feet deeper than the rocky
fish, and light decreases with ocean depth, perhaps a decrease in light
causes an increase in sandiness. If this were true, and the fish in the
tanks recieved less light than fish at 20 feet of depth, sandiness would
be increased.
Another explanation is that there is some cost involved with
possessing a rocky morphology, and that removing these fish from the
field somehow reduced the pressure to maintain this morphology, causing
the fish to become more sandy. If this is the case, then this cost is most
likely the energy spent on maintaining the expression of the highly
plastic melanophores in dark bands and patches.
Sandy fish, when given the choice between rock and sand, seemed to
display a preference for sand by choosing sand 768 of the trials. Rocky
fish, when presented with the same choice, displayed little preference
for either rock or sand. This correlates well with what has been
presented. Sandy fish do not seem able to immediately match a rocky
substrate. This could be the result of not having large irridophore spots
to higfilighit with melanophore changes and create a high contrast
pattern, or it could be that obtaining and maintaining a rocky morphology
is too energetically costly. Since sandy fish are not able to bury in the
rocky substrate for camof lage, they remain in the sand where they match
best. Rocky fish, however, seem to be able to adapt quickly to a sandy
substrate. This could be the result of possessing an irridophore pattern
with easily reduceable contrast, or it could be energetically favorable to
discontinue maintenance of melanophore bands and patches. Fish
acclimating to a sandy substrate also have the ability to bury in the sand
for added camouf lage during the early stages of adaptation, since it
