Fish were tested for substrate preference in an aquarium in which
the bottom was half sand and half rock. The substrates in the tank were
collected from the fish capture sites. Fish were quided onto the dividing
line between rock and sand through a clear cylindrical chute. Each
control fish was sent down the chute 3 times and substrate choices were
scored. This was repeated for each control fish every day for 17 days.
Two methods of analyzing pattern changes were employed: human
ranking and digital image processing. A pattern scale of 1 (most rocky)
to 5 (most sandy) was established based on five representative
photographs of different fish (see Figure 2). 25 photographs of fish at
day O and 25 photographs of the same fish acclimated for 8 days were
shuffled together and scored on this scale of 1 to 5 by 15 unbjased
judges. Three sandy patterned fish acclimating to rock died during the 8
day period and could not be scored. By subtracting the pre-acclimation
score from the post-acclimation score for each fish, l obtained a value
for the magnitude and direction of pattern change. A positive change
indicates the fish became more sandy; a negative change indicates the
fish became more rocky. Hean pre- and post-acclimation values, as well
as net change values, were obtained for each group of fish (rocky and
sandy, controls and experimentals.)
he rate of acclimation was determined from 6 photographs taken
during the acclimation of 4 fish. The middle 4 photographs in each series
were removed and shuffled, leaving the first and last photographs as
endpoints. 5 unbiased judges were instructed to place the 4
intermediate photographs from each series in order from initial pattern
morphology to final. Each misplaced photograph was assigned a value of
to 3, depending on how far from its correct position the photograph
was placed (for example; if the series' original order was "ABCD" and the
photographs were arranged "BDCA", the A position would be assigned 1.
the B position 2, the C position O, and the D position 3.) By observing the
