Metals in Dipterans and Amphipods, 7.
fer cardboard and chewable trash to the bodies of fish and
birds (Bowers, 1964). In addition, the animals' habitats
vary. Hoppers constitute a stable and non-migratory pop-
ulation on the beach. They burrow in the sand during the
day, occasionallyhbeing covered by a high tide, and search
for food in a local area at night. The ecology of marine
flies is not as clearly understood, but it is obvious that
these insects have a wider range of movement than the amphipods.
Flies invade a beach following the deposition of wrack and may
live inside the rotting seaweed or in dry holdfasts. Their
stay is temporary, and Cole (1965) believes that Coelopa
may have migratory flights. Whether the flies exploit ter
restrial food sources during some period of their lives is
not known. A final reason why metal levels may be higher
in flies than in beach hoppers is a biochemical one. Under-
wood (1971) reminds us that knowing the concentration of a
metal is not meaningful unless its interaction with other
elements is also understood. The insect's absorption of
metals through the intestine and tracheole wall (Goodwin,
1965) may exceed that of the amphipod. Metabolic pathways
could also be sufficiently different in the two animals to
cause consistent variations in metal levels.
A comparison of larval and adult coelopid flies and of old
and young beach hoppers is shown in figure 3. Lower metal
levels in the larvae for all elements but Mn may be due to
their shorter lives, less varied diets (they are physically
limited to the decaying kelp in which they are scavengers,
while the adults range over the entire beach), or juvenile
set of enzymes and hormones. Bowen (1950) found that Mn
accumulated in juvenile wasps until pupation, at which time
levels dropped.. His finding may apply as well to the dipterans
I tested. In contrast, the adult and juvenile hoppers were
very similar in trace metal levels. This is probably because
the two age groups share a habitat, food source, and metabolic
complement.
