Metals in Dipterans and Amphipods, 8.
Variation in trace element levels onoone beach would be
expected over time due to chance importation of actual metal
or metal-rich food, terrestrial rumoff, rainfall, etc. The
results of a day-to-day study of the Hopkins back beach
hopper, 0. corniculata, are summarized in figure 4. Iron
was found to fluctuate dramatically over the time period
tested (variations up to 200 ppm). This may represent var-
iations in leaching caused by high tides covering the beach's
scrap iron, changes in food source, orrdust contamination.
Copper, lead and zinc fluctuated moderately over time, while
cadmium, manganese, nickel, and silver showed stable levels.
Each metal varied independently. The range of fluctuation
in Fe, Zn, Cu, and Pb is significant enough to justify studies
over time rather than single day sampling for these metals
on a particular beach. The results throw doubt on data from
single collections, especially in pollution studies.
Variation in metal levels due to species differences was
studied for the beach flies, Coelopa vanduzeei and Fucellia
rufitibia, re collected from the same wrack beds. Over the
Monterey Peninsula, no significant difference in elementary
composition was noted. A comparison between the two beach
hopper species was not possible because the animals did not
occur sympatrically in any of my collection sites.
It is of interest that the beach "visitors" - the flies-
showed higher levels of all major metals than the stationary
amphipods. Elevated cadmium levels are particularly un-
expected and suggest that contamination of a possibly mar-
ine origin has more impact of the terrestrial ecosystem
than was previously suspected. Metal analyses of other
terrestrial animals that find food on the beach would be
an important follow-up to this study. No fewer than seven
species of birds, only two of which are considered shore
dwellers, have been observed to eat fly larvae from the
beach wrack (Baldridge, 1972). Glynn's stomach analyses of
