While the 9°C and 14°C fish maintain a higher heart rate at 1°C, relative to the 19°C and
26°C acclimated fish, this does not necessarily imply that the 9°C and 14°C acclimated fish are
capable of surviving for long periods of time in very cold environments. At this temperature the
fish suffer a loss of fitness and fecundity. In unpublished experiments conducted at the
McMurdo station in Antarctica, Somero, Jayasundara and Healy measured the heart rate of T.
pennellii and T. hansoni. These are polar fish, comparable in size to G. mirabilis, adapted to
live at-1.9°C. When heated to 1°C using similar experimental methods as used in this
experiment, the Antarctic fish displayed a heart rate near 20 beats per minute. As stenothermic
fish, T. pennellii and T. hansoni approximately represent what the heart rate would need to be in
order for a fish to survive and reproduce in a polar environment. The G. mirabilis acclimated at
a 9°C and 14°C maintained a heart rate of around 10 beats per minute at 1°C, only half the heart
rate displayed by the polar species at the same temperature. While the lower temperature
acclimated G. mirabilis have a better acute response to the decreasing temperature, it is clear that
the fish have minimal cardiac activity near the lower limit of their thermal window
The acclimation effects observed in this experiment represent change in the heart
physiology of the fish at different temperatures. By living in different temperatures for a month
long period, the acclimated fish likely remodeled their physiology by changing the types or
amount of enzymes and stress response proteins in the heart in order to increase cardiac output in
their respective environments. Metabolic enzyme activity studies could be performed on the fish
heart tissues to identify the changes in heart physiology. I conjecture that, while acclimating, the
19°C and 26'C expend energy making an increased number of heat shock proteins to protect the
heart from high temperatures and may down-regulate synthesis of other proteins, such as the
metabolic enzymes that generate ATP to support cardiac performance. Conversely, the 9°C and
