14°C fish probably expend energy making only enzymes that can function well in cooler
temperatures and produce more enzymes to increase the rate of catalysis at low temperatures.
The results of this study show that acclimation results in a shift in the lower thermal limit
of G. mirabilis, however, it would be equally as interesting to see the effects of the same
acclimation on the upper thermal limits of the fish. If a true physiological change occurs in the
acclimated fish that directly affects ability to survive during acute temperature flux, then
temperature acclimation could result in a shift or a narrowing of the thermal window. By
monitoring the heart rate of the same fish as the ambient water temperature is increased, a more
complete thermal window could be created. I expect that the fish acclimated at 9°C would not
perform as well in high temperatures as the 26°C fish and therefore suffer from cardiac failure at
a lower temperature during acute heat stress.
Other studies of temperature effects on cardiac activity have demonstrated that sustaining
heart function at extremes of high temperature may be critical in the context of global warming
(Somero, 2010; Pörtner and Farrell, 2008). Notably, cardiac function in warm-adapted species
such as tropical congeners is in greatest jeopardy from global warming because critical
temperatures for heart failure lie close to current extremes of high temperature and acclimatory
capacity is much lower in warm-adapted species. Thus, for G. mirabilis, it will be important to
determine whether the species has sufficient phenotypic plasticity to increase the heat tolerance
of heart function over thermal ranges likely to result from on-going climate change.
Acknowledgments
I would like to thank George Somero for initially getting me excited about this research
and then advising me throughout the process. His knowledge on the subject is extensive and his
interest in the long-jaw mudsucker goby is unrivaled. I would also like to thank Nishad
