temperatures, the three acclimations are equally able to meet the aerobic demands of the fish
until temperatures fall below 5°C. Heart rates of the 26°C declined at a faster rate than those of
the other acclimation groups, reaching approximately 20 beats per minute near 15°C. The
inability of the 26°C fish to maintain the same cardiac performance as the other acclimation
groups reveals that the 26°C fish already suffer from a decrease in cardiac performance at 19°(
and 14°C resulting in inadequate oxygen supply and a potential loss of fitness at those
temperatures. At 9°C and 5°C, the 26°C acclimated fish are able to maintain the same heart beat
as the other acclimated fish, reflecting a similar oxygen supply and possibly demand among all
groups. The ability of the 26°C fish to maintain the same heart rate as the other fish at these
temperatures while maintaining a lower heart rate at higher temperatures could be a reflection of
a drop in the fitness levels of the other acclimated fish and the ability of the 26°C fish to maintain
a steady heart rate despite a decrease in temperature.
5°C seems to be a pivotal temperature at which the acclimation effects are most evident
Decreasing the temperature past this point results in a dramatic decline in heart rate by the 19°C
and 26°C fish, which is not observed in the 9°C and 14°C fish. By 1°C, the colder acclimated
fish maintained a heart rate over twice that of the warmer acclimated fish. Thus, the 9°C and
19°C acclimated fish are able to maintain more of an aerobic capacity at temperatures only
slightly above 0°C. The large discrepancy between heart rates in the warmer and cooler
acclimated fish at 1°C provides compelling evidence that temperature acclimation has direct
effects on both the cardiac function and lower thermal limits of the fish. The 9°C and 14°C fish
are able to more effectively circulate blood throughout their bodies at low temperatures, which
demonstrates that acclimation has led to a lowering of the thermal window over which adequate
cardiac function can be maintained.
