potential. Although kinetic properties were not extensively studied, application of external Gde
was not observed to produce a significant effect on the time courses of activation or deactivation.
Two inward currents were also observed in GFL cell bodies starting 4-5 days after
culturing, with recording solutions containing 480 uM Na and 10 uM Ca in the external solution
and 220 uM Na in the internal solution. The first of these currents, which has fast kinetics.
inactivates almost completely, and is TTX-sensitive, was identified based on these criteria as the
inappropriately-expressed Na current described in detail by Brismar and Gilly (1987; see also
Gilly and Brismar, 1989). Previous analysis has shown that this Na current is likely produced by
à single type of Na channel (with inactivating and non-inactivating subtypes) also found in giant
axon, and two molecular clones have been identified as candidates (Rosenthal and Gilly. 2003).
This current did not appear to be affected by application of 20 uM Gd' externally, in its voltage¬
dependent properties, reversal potential, or kinetics.
The second component of the inward current, which is slower, non-inactivating, and
TIX-insensitive, was not definitively identified based on the data presented here. It likely has a
component of Ca-carried current, based on its TTX-insensitivity. A similar current has been
described (Llano and Bookman, 1986; Brismar and Gilly, 1987; and Gilly and Brismar, 1989)
and identified as Ca current based on similar criteria and additional data showing block by Cde
Gilly and Brismar (1989) also found that this current did not reverse, adding further support to its
identification as Ca current. The current did reverse in the experiments conducted in this study.
suggesting that it may not be pure Ca current, but may also contain a Na component (carried
through non-inactivating Na channels), based on its reversal potential. Only one candidate Ca
channel has been identified, described conclusively as a non-L-type channel, and possibly the
same P-type channel found in giant axon (Rosenthal and Gilly, 2003). This current was
