Squid Stellate Ganglion Giant Fiber Lobe
The giant fiber lobe (GFL) of the stellate ganglion of squid is a well-studied system, as it
contains the cells that give rise to the squid giant axon, the first system in which voltage-clamp
studies were possible. The cell bodies of GFL were first reported to be inexcitable in vivo by
Miledi (1967), but later found to produce observable currents when cultured. Llano and
Bookman (1986) described the currents of GFL cell bodies as dominated by a slow (reaching
steady-state in 10-15ms), outward current with threshold of about -30 to -20mV, which
inactivated partially during a long depolarizing pulse (250ms). K ions were identified as the
main carrier of this current because of its K-dependence, sensitivity to TEA, insensitivity to TIX
and Cd, and reversal potential, and kinetic analysis led to the conclusion that the conductance
represented a single type of K channel (Llano and Bookman, 1986). These properties of this
channel are identical to those of the channel responsible for K current in giant axon, and a
putative molecular clone of the channel has been isolated by Rosenthal and Gilly (2003).
The calcium current in GFL cell bodies, one component of the inward current observed in
recordings in the absence of K, is slow, TTX-insensitive, blocked by Zn“, 10 mM CSCl, and 1-5
mM Cd“, and does not show significant inactivation (Llano and Bookman, 1986; Brismar and
Gilly, 1987; Gilly and Brismar, 1989). This channel has been characterized as P-type, based on
pharmacological properties, and a non-L-type candidate clone has been identified, but has not yet
been directly compared to the identified P-type current (Rosenthal and Gilly, 2003).
The Na currents in GFL cell bodies are complex in their own right. As stated above,
GFL cell bodies are inexcitable in vivo, but upon culturing, significant Na current appears,
usually after 4-6 days, and can be maintained for up to two weeks (Gilly and Brismar, 1989;
Brismar and Gilly, 1987; Gilly, et. al., 1990). This current is thought to be the result of
