al., 1998), and a few types of K and Na currents in myelinated axons and cardiac muscle (Elinder
and Arhem, 1994; Li and Baumgarten, 2001). These studies suggest that it is valuable to
investigate the effects of Gd" on diverse channel types, especially Ca channels. The present
study does not show any effects of Gd' on K, Na, or Ca currents, however. The Ca channel
present in GFL neurons is likely to be P-type (Rosenthal and Gilly, 2003), a subtype on which
the effects of Gd" have not been published. Observations in this laboratory, however, suggest
that Gd“ is an effective blocker of Ca current in GFL cell bodies (Gilly, unpublished
observations). There is a similar lack of precedent for the block of Gd" on voltage-gated Na and
K channels in neuron cell bodies or unmyelinated axons.
The effects of Gd' on the channels present in GFL neurons should be investigated
further. Various technical concerns exist in studies using Gd", including concerns of effective
concentration in the presence of various chelating anions such as phosphate, carbonate, and
EGTA. The current study avoids these specific compounds (with the exception of sulfate present
in the ASW used as an external solution for recordings of K current), but it is worthwhile to keep
in mind the possibility that the effective concentration of Gd" in experimental solutions might
be well below expected. An interesting side note is that these anions, which are very
physiologically important, may prevent Gd" from having significant effects in vivo, preventing
harmful consequences of using Gd" in brain imaging studies. Gd' still has value as a
pharmacological agent in experimentation, as it can be used to separate various current types in a
variety of otherwise confusing situations. More detailed investigation of the effects of Gd' on
the Ca current in GFL neurons would also be useful as previous studies have shown that Gde
block may require significant time, or may occur only after several depolarizations, both of
which would have caused an effect to be missed in the present study (Biagi and Enyeart, 1990;
