unaffected by external application of 20 uM Gd" in both voltage-dependent properties and
reversal potential. Its kinetics were not extensively studied due a lack of experiments conducted
with application of TTX. Further study of the effects of Gd' on this current are necessary, as
the results presented here are contradictory to prior observations of Ca channel block by Gd' in
squid GFL (Gilly, unpublished observations).
The results of this study add to a large pool of data on the effects of Gd' on various
types of mechanosensitive, ligand- and voltage-gated channels. Concentrations as low as 100
nM Gd are enough to block some channel types, but others remain active even in the presence
of 100 uM Gd (Tokimasa and North, 1996; Hamill and McBride, 1996). The effects of Gd'
are also complex in many cases, showing non-linear dose-response curves, and seemingly
opposite effects over broad concentration ranges (Hamill and McBride, 1996). Due to its
consistent block of mechanosensitive channels, and the lack of studies showing effects on other
channel types, Gd' was seen as a specific blocker of stretch-activated and inactivated channels
(SA and SI channels), although further studies showed Gd" to block other channel types, as well
as examples of SA channels not blocked by Gd", urging caution in the use of Gd' as diagnostic
of mechanosensitive channels (Hamill and McBride, 1996).
Other channel types found to be blocked by Gd include various types of Ca channels,
including transient receptor potential (TRP) channels (Vennekens, et. al, 2001), dihydropyridine¬
sensitive Ca currents (Lansman, 1990), and voltage-gated channels of N-, L-, and T-type
(Docherty, 1988; Mlinar, and Enyeart, 1993; Biagi and Enyeart, 1990; LaCampagne, et, al.,
1994) in diverse systems including smooth and cardiac muscle, neurons, epithelial and endocrine
cells. Gd" has also been shown to block Ca-activated Cl currents (Tokimasa and North. 1996).
à number of non-specific cation currents (Koh, et. al, 2001; Zhang and Hancox, 2003; Zhang, et.
