approximately two meters apart. These distances are measured following the relief of the
shoreline (Denny et al, submitted).
Quadrats, 22 cm wide by 31.5 cm high, were used to estimate percent cover of species
adjacent to each site. Quadrats were located with their center nine inches to the right of the
meter hole (looking at the shore with your back to the ocean). Percent cover was estimated for
all macroscopic species located in each quadrat. Bare rock was included as a "species." As a
result, the proportional cover sums to 1 for every site. Data were taken twice at each site during
October 2002. Replicates were reconciled, checked and averaged.
Physical data for each site includes the azimuth angle, the slope angle, a measure of
maximum wave force, a maximum temperature, and an index number for the amount of cracks
and crevices in the quadrat area. Azimuth angle (horizontal direction of the site normal vector
relative to north) was measured at each site using a compass. Slope angle (the slope of the rock
face, where horizontal sites have a slope angle of O degrees and vertical sites are 90 degrees) was
measured at each site using an electronic level.
At each site along the transect, maximum water velocity was estimated as a function of
offshore wave height (Helmuth and Denny, 2003). Wave force data was obtained by using a
dynamometer installed into the rock at each site. Each meter consists of a spring scale attached
to a small ball that the wave’s force pulls. Further description of the dynamometers can be found
in Bell and Denny (1994) and Denny and Wethey (2001). The meters have been calibrated in
previous studies so that the record on the spring scale can be equated to a certain wave force, and
measurements were made for a large number of known offshore wave heights. These data, were
used to predict wave force at each site along the transect for a typical offshore wave height of
two meters (Helmuth and Denny, 2003). To a first approximation, wave force along the transect
