separated at a distance of 1.5 from the base of the tree. There appears to be a connection
between the composition of these clusters and the way individual species respond to the physical
factors. The first group, cluster I, (containing M. californianus, Lottia paradigitalis, and L.
pelta) has a significant positive correlation with wave force in half of the species (eight out of
16). The middle cluster (containing L. digitalis, Chthamalus spp., and E. muricata) shows less
correlation with wave force (only one species out of six, and a negative correlation), but instead,
a negative correlation with slope angle in three of the six species. The last cluster (containing
Porphyra spp., Ralfsia pacifica, and Cladophora columbiana) has a negative correlation with
wave force in four out of ten species, but no other strong cluster-wide trends.
The second type of cluster analysis performed was done on sites, grouping them by the
species present at each location. The cluster analysis of sites clustered by species abundance
(Fig. 8) yielded nine clusters and one outlier, with the cluster denotation line placed so that
clusters were very large (at a distance of 0.93). To characterize the species assemblages in the
groups of sites found in the cluster diagram, the means and standard deviations of each species
abundances were calculated for every cluster (Table 1). Five of the nine clusters could easily be
characterized by the unusually large abundance of a particular species. For example, cluster IX,
has sites that all have significantly high abundances of M. californianus as compared to all other
sites on the transect (mean M. californianus species abundance for cluster IX is 64.8%) (p50.01,
Student’s t-test). The cluster with the next highest mean M. californianus species abundance is
cluster VII, with 28.9%. Cluster II sites contain significantly large amounts of E. muricata as
compared to all other sites on the transect (p£0.01, Student’s t-test). Average abundance for this
group is 53.7%, while the group with the next highest E. muricata abundance is cluster III, at
27.2%. From this, those clusters that are dissimilar from one another are evident (those that have
﻿12
