filter feeders that form large beds in this mid-intertidal zone, and Pisaster ochraceus is the sea
star that preys upon them. These three species generally dominate the exposed mid intertidal
shoreline. Also commonly found with this assemblage are the chiton Nuttallina californica, the
barnacle Tetraclita rubescens, the predatory snail Nucella emarginata, and three limpet species,
Lottia gigantea, L. limatula, and Tectura scutum. The corresponding mid-intertidal community
on protected shores includes Tegula funebralis, an intertidal snail, Patiria miniata, the bat star,
and Tonicella lineata, a chiton (Group IV). Sponges, such as Haliclona spp. and Plocamium
spp. are also found in this community. Located just above the mid-intertidal community is an
upper community, dominated by the alga Endocladia muricata, as well as the limpets Lottia
scabra and L. pelta (Group V). When this assemblage occurs in more wave-exposed areas, it
shares the limpet L. gigantea and snail N. emarginata with the mid-intertidal exposed
community. At the upper end of the intertidal emersion gradient, is the high wave splash zone.
The community that characterizes this zone (Group VI) includes the littorines, as well as the
limpet Lottia digitalis, and the barnacles Balanus glandula, and Chthamalus spp. These species
are able to withstand the threat of desiccation in this high intertidal region. These last two
communities (Groups V and VI) occur on both protected and wave-exposed shores, although
with greater species abundance and lower down in protected areas (Ricketts and Calvin, 1992).
Wave-induced hydrodynamic forces and the resulting splash of waves are the primary
factors that drive the changes between exposed and protected shores. The force of a wave (due
to drag, acceleration, and lift (Denny et al, 1985)) can remove delicate species. Wave splash
may increase the height of the shore that remains wet at low tide. Researchers have shown that
an increase in wave splash causes both expansion and upward shift of the vertical zones seen in
