the intertidal zone (Fig. 2) (Burrows et al, 1954; Lewis, 1964; Carefoot, 1977; Ricketts and
Calvin, 1992; Raffaelli and Hawkins, 1996).
This prediction of how intertidal zones vary with exposure, combined with the six
communities that Ricketts and Calvin (1992) describe, should allow one to characterize species
distribution in the intertidal zone (Fig. 3). This descriptive model predicts that given a horizontal
transection of a shoreline that spans the entire range of exposure (from fully exposed to fully
sheltered), the most wave-exposed areas of the transect will have a species assemblage
characteristic of the lowest vertical zone. Likewise, the most sheltered area of the transect will
have a species assemblage characteristic of the highest vertical zone. The number of vertical
zones that are crossed with this horizontal slice of the intertidal zone will depend on the
horizontal difference in exposure. A section of shoreline that has great differences in exposure
will have many different vertical zones represented along a horizontal transect, whereas on a
shoreline that has only one type of exposure a transect will all fall within a single zone.
The Hopkins Marine Station shore, where this study took place, is comprised of both
highly exposed headlands of rocky shore as well as protected sandy beaches. Both sheltered and
exposed areas were interspersed along the 325-meter transect that was the study site for this
project,. Because of the large range in exposure, I expected that the horizontal transect would
include multiple vertical zones and their corresponding species assemblages. Following the
model described above, I predicted that the most exposed areas of the transect should contain
organisms from the mid-intertidal exposed community (Group III). The section of the transect
with the lowest wave exposure should contain an assemblage characteristic of the upper limits of
the intertidal zone (Group VI). At the areas of the transect with medium wave exposure, a
