a significantly high quantity of one species), as well as clusters that may not be significant (those
that do not have any distinguishing species). Because of the difficulty in validating clusters (see
Arabie and Hubert, 1996), this distinction between the clusters was used to choose which clusters
to analyze. The most notable clusters, IX, VII, II, VI, and I, are those that have a distinguishing
species, and will be the only ones discussed here. Clusters III, IV, V, and VIII did not have a
large quantity of a certain species or other distinguishing characteristic.
Cluster IX is characterized by significantly high abundances of M. californianus, P.
polymerus, and N. californica (p#0.01, Student’s t-test). Along the transect, the sites in this
group occur on headlands (Fig. 9), that is, in areas that are the most exposed. Average wave
force for the sites in this cluster is 56.8 N, the highest average for all nine clusters. Also, the
average azimuth angle of sites in this cluster is 322.0 degrees, northwest, only two degrees off
the estimated direction of wave approach (324 degrees).
Sites in cluster VII are characterized by significantly high abundances of Hildenbrandia
spp. (average percent cover for sites in this cluster is 46.2%), L. gigantea, and M. scabra as
compared to all other sites (pS0.01, Student’s t-test). This cluster occurs slightly further away
from the tips of the headlands than cluster IX, but still covers areas that are wave-impacted. The
average wave force at the sites in this cluster feel (55.8 N) is just slightly less than the average
wave force for sites in cluster IX. In the regression analysis, it was found that Hildenbrandia
spp. has a strong positive correlation with slope of the substrate. This might imply that this
cluster, which is characterized by high abundances of Hildenbrandia spp., would have a high
slope angle. In actuality, the slope angle of these sites is exactly equal to the average slope angle
for all the sites along the transect (64 degrees).
