changes proportionally at every site as a function of offshore wave height. That is, one site will
not suddenly jump from a wave force of 35N at a two-meter wave height to 85N at three-meter
wave height if all the other sites that have 35N forces at two-meter wave heights only increase to
5ON with a three meter wave height.
Temperature was logged at all sites along the transect for two weeks during April 2002
using iButton digital temperature loggers. From this record, the maximum temperatures
achieved at each site along the transect during those two weeks was noted. It was assumed that
the relative temperatures among the sites would not change drastically through time (i.e. the
hottest sites would remain the hottest on both the hottest and the coldest days, and the coldest
sites would be the coldest on both the hottest and coldest days).
Topography at each site was quantified using an index of the amount of cracks and
crevices in the rock found at each quadrat area. Any cracks or crevices found in the quadrat area
at each site and their width and depth, were measured and recorded, and these measurements
were transformed into an index value. Length of cracks was unnecessary to record, as nearly al
of the cracks extended far beyond the quadrat area. Quadrats containing no cracks or crevices
were assigned a value of 1. Quadrats with cracks at least 3 cm in width were assigned a 2, those
at least 5 cm in width were assigned a 3, those at least 10 cm in width were assigned a 4, and
those 15 cm in width or more were assigned a 5. A crack with a depth double its width was
assigned the next higher value. A crack with a depth less than half its width was assigned the
next lower index value. If a quadrat contained multiple cracks, the sum of the widths and depths
of the cracks was used to estimate the topographic index. For example, a site with a crack 7 cm
wide by 3 cm deep would be assigned a 2, a site with a crack 3 cm wide by 10 cm deep would be
assigned a 3, and a site with both of those cracks would be assigned a 4 (from the sum of the
