dendrogram of that had clusters of sites with related species abundances. Both analyses
excluded rare species, where "rare" is defined as being found in five percent or fewer of the total
quadrats along the transect. This exclusion minimized groupings that didn’t accurately represent
the real structure of the data. Rare species tend to cluster with relationships that are artificial, as
a result of the cluster structure imposed on them.
The cluster analyses that were performed in this study utilized two different types of
distance methods. The R“ distance metric (which is the square of the Pearson correlation
coefficient) was used when clustering the sites as a function of species composition. Because the
alternative methods (Euclidean and City-block measures) are highly influenced by large values,
the R“ metric was chosen so as to include all values at an approximately equal weight in the
clustering. The gamma metric, a measure of association, was used when creating the clusters of
species regardless of sites. Gamma correlation is a metric used when clustering variables that
have large quantities of cases to describe them. It is especially useful when comparing data that
have large quantities of "tied observations" or observations that are the same among variables or
among cases (Wilkinson et al, 1996). In this case, many quadrats contained none of a particular
species, which made the gamma correlation ideal.
Complete linkage was used rather than single or average linkages. One of the goals of
the cluster analysis in this project was to identify different communities in the intertidal zone.
To achieve that, the complete linkage was a better metric because it only groups objects that are
highly similar.
The dendrograms produced by cluster analysis branched to the left off of the main stem
of the cluster tree. Lengths of the branches are known as moats. Estabrook (1966) defines the
moat of a cluster as the difference between the distance at which a cluster is formed and the
