as 2ir, and a concentration of strength in the circumference of the stipe could lead to the inverse
relationship seen in Fig. 6. As of the moment, however, this hypothesis is simply speculation.
The biological mechanisms by which tissue strength may vary in red algae are also
unknown, although many have been suggested. Previous studies suggest that the types and
amounts of structural materials, the proportion of these materials, and the orientation of fibers in
thalli may play a role in brown algal tissue strength variation (Wainwright et al. 1976, Koehl &
Wainwright 1977, Babb 1985). Modification of cell wall composition, including an
augmentation of structural compounds, in specific response to wave forces has also been
previously documented for brown algae (Kraemer and Chapman 1991b). Kraemer and Chapman
(1991a) also noted an increase in incorporation of radioactively tagged carbon into cell wall
tissue of Egregia under the application of a continuous force, which may play a role in strength
variation.
Given the very low R“ values calculated for the relationship between drag and cross-
sectional area (R° = 0.048) and that between drag and strength (R° = 0.053), interpretations of
these data must be somewhat guarded. Although both relationships are statistically significant
with P-values of 0.009 and 0.007 respectively, the natural variation within this M. papillatus
population is clearly very great compared to the magnitude of the adjustments of either cross¬
sectional area or strength with increasing drag. The lack of evidence for either of these
relationships in other red algae suggest that investigations specifically relating drag to
morphological and mechanical parameters, not just “exposed" and "protected" environments,
would be needed to detect these relatively weak signals in other species of red algae.
These high levels of natural variation should not, however, be taken to imply that the
increases in cross-sectional area and strength shown here are biologically irrelevant.
-10-
