from “exposed" and "protected" sites, I examine these same properties as they vary continuously
along a drag gradient.
Drag is the most important hydrodynamic force applied to intertidal organisms and as a
result, the primary means by which algae interact with their wave environment. The force of
drag pulls an intertidal alga in the direction of water flow and is dependent both upon water
velocity and the projected area of that alga into the flow. The previous studies cited above
largely examined groups of algae taken from “exposed" and "protected" sites for variation
between different wave exposure environments. For M. papillatus, however, this approach may
be confounded by the fact that the size or frontal area of this alga varies with wave exposure
(Carrington 1990). As such, a small alga from a wave-exposed site might experience similar
drag conditions to those of a large alga in a wave-protected site. Given that drag represents the
biologically important interaction between an organism and its wave environment, a test of how
the morphological and mechanical properties of an alga vary with drag likely represents a more
relevant test of an algal response to its wave environment.
Using the exposed / protected design described above, Emily Carrington (1990) found no
significant differences in stipe strength (breaking force divided by cross-sectional area at the
breaking point) between exposed and protected M. papillatus populations. In this study, I
examine variation in breaking force, cross-sectional area, and strength for M. papillatus along a
drag gradient in an attempt to detect relationships between these properties and the wave
environment (represented by drag) that might not be apparent from Carrington's approach.
I found that with increasing drag, M. papillatus thalli show increases in all three of these
properties - breaking force, stipe cross-sectional area (the area over which a blade is most likely
to break), and tissue strength. Stipe cross-sectional area and strength, however, are negatively
-3.
