I. Fu
(Spatial scales of variation)
The observed distribution for L. planaris has an intermediate degree of oversap with the
corresponding Poisson distribution (Fig. 7c).
Discussion:
Because L. limatula had significant differences among transects (within subsites), it is
apparently patchy on a scale of tens of meters. Optimal sampling efforts should thus concentrate
on this spatial scale to detect changes among sites. In contrast, S. squamigerus varied significantly
among both transects and subsites. This indicates that the tube snail is patchy on a scale of
hundreds of meters and that there is a great deal of spatial variation within the patches themselves.
For L. planaxis, there were no significant differences at any of the three spatial scales, indicating
that it is spread out fairly evenly throughout the sites. The large contribution of residual variance to
the total variances for L. limatula and L. planaxis indicate that there was considerable variation
among quadrats (Fig. 6).
One difficulty with a nested sampling design is that the degrees of freedom (and hence the
power of the test) decrease at increasingly higher levels of nesting. For example, in this study, the
mean abundances of tube snails at Fisherman's Wharf and Point Pinos appeared to be fairly
different, yet the analysis of variance indicated this difference was not significant. This surprising
result is due partly to the small power of the test at that level of nesting (3 and 4 degrees of
freedom). Another problem with this sampling design is that a large variance at a lower level in the
hierarchy tends to obscure variation at higher levels. For the tube snail, 25% of the total variance
was contributed at the subsite level for this species, meaning that only a very large difference in
mean abundances at the sites would have been detected as significant.
The large Dp for S. squamigerus shows that very little of the tube snail's observed
distribution conformed to a Poisson distribution. The HI indicates a clumped distribution, which is
supported by the natural history of the organism. Because S. squamigerus is a sessile snail, the
differences in mean abundances at the subsite and transect level most likely resulted from patterns
of larval settlement. Based on the gregarious nature of the tube snail, the larvae are thought to
