I. Fu
(Spatial scales of variation)
ratio. Thus, the presence of outliers will greatly increase the variance and inflate M, especially if X
is small. In contrast, Dp is less sensitive to departures from the Poisson distribution when the
overall abundances are very low. In the case of L. limatula, which had most of the quadrat counts
at zero with a few outliers, Dp will not weight the outliers as heavily, and the observed distribution
could fit a Poisson distribution fairly well. Two of the quadrats had counts of seven or higher,
showing that there were clumps in the limpet distribution. Aspects of the natural history of the
limpet could result in a patchy distribution. For example, L. limatula exhibits an escape response
to predatory sea stars, especially Pisaster ochraceus, by moving upward on vertical rocks or
downstream on horizontal ones in response to a sea star scent in the water (Phillips 1974). Thus,
if the distribution of sea stars is patchy on the scale of tens of meters, then the variation at that
spatial scale observed in the limpets may have been due to this avoidance behavior. In terms of
food availability, the limpets feed on microscopic algae, as well as the encrusting algae
Hildenbrandia and Peyssonnelia (Kitting 1978, Eaton 1968). If the abundances of these algae vary
on the scale of tens of meters, then they may have been partly responsible for the significant
differences among transects. Patchy larval settlement and juvenile survival could also have
contributed to the significant differences at that spatial scale.
With limited time, money, and effort available for conducting research, it is imperative that
any sampling done on an organism provide an accurate estimate of the abundance and distribution
of the species of interest. Without knowing beforehand what the spatial scales of variation for the
organism are, however, any sampling effort cannot be depended on for reliable results. This study
illustrates the value of doing a preliminary study, using a nested sampling design, on an organism
to determine the patchiness of that animal’s distribution before an extensive and costly sampling
effort is made.
