(Spatial scales of variation)
I. Fu
Results:
Mean limpet densities per transect ranged from 0.05-1.45 m2 (Fig. 3). There were
significant (pe0.05) differences among transects within sites, but not at either of the larger spatial
scales (Table la). A significant difference at the transect level indicates that, in at least one subsite
within one site, there were significantly different mean limpet densities between transects. The
largest differences among the transect averages were in Subsite 1 in Carmel, which most likely
contributed to the significant result at the transect level (Fig. 3). There was some variation between
the average limpet counts for the subsites at HMS, Carmel, and the Great Tide Pool, but these
differences were not significant (p»0.05).
Mean tube snail densities per transect ranged from 0-584 m22 (Fig. 4). There were
significant differences among transects and subsites for S. squamigerus but not among sites
(Table 1b). Large differences among transects and subsites at HMS most likely contributed to the
significant differences at those levels of nesting (Fig. 4, Table 1). An apparently large difference
between the average tube snail abundances at the Fisherman's Wharf and Point Pinos sites was not
significant (p2O.05).
For L. planaris, mean densities per transect ranged from 145.6 606.4 m2 (Fig. 5). There
were no significant differences at any of the three spatial scales.
Residual variance contributed 84.3% of the total variance for L. planaxis and 92.8% of the
total variance for L. limatula. (Fig. 6). For the tube snail, the four sources of variation contributed
roughly equal percentages of the total variance (Fig. 6).
The variance to mean ratios and indices of aggregation calculated for the three species were
all greater than one (Table 2). The indices of departure from the Poisson curve ranged from a high
of 0.844 for S. squamigerus to a low of 0.125 for L. limatula, with an intermediate value of 0.632
obtained for L. planaxis (Table 2). These values indicate that the observed distribution for the
limpet has a fairly large degree of overlap with a Poisson distribution of the same mean (Fig. 7a).
while the observed distribution for the tube snail has a relatively small degree of overlap (Fig. 7b).
