I. Fu
(Spatial scales of variation)
theorized that this clumping behavior helps reduce desiccation (Miyamoto 1968). Like the other
two species, the larger spatial scales of variation have not been studied.
Use of a fully nested sampling design enabled the determination of the spatial scales of
variation for these three invertebrates. This study illustrates the importance of doing such a nested
sampling design to obtain accurate estimates of the abundance and distribution of organisms.
Materials and Methods:
Determination of optimal quadrat size
This portion of the study was conducted in the rocky intertidal area at Hopkins Marine
Station (HMS) in Pacific Grove, California (Fig. 1). Sampling procedures consisted of placing
20-meter transects in areas of comparable vertical height and then counting the number of desired
organisms present in randomly spaced quadrats. Notes were also taken on the microhabitat of each
quadrat.
For L. limatula, two transects were located in the mid-intertidal zone of an area protected
from wave action, with one crossing predominantly horizontal surfaces and the other passing
primarily over vertical surfaces. A third transect was situated in a mid-intertidal area that was more
exposed to wave action, and it encompassed both vertical and horizontal surfaces. For each
transect, five 0.0625 m2 quadrats were sampled. The counts were repeated at the same locations
using 0.25 m2 and 1.0 m2 quadrats. For S. squamigerus, one transect was run in the low-intertidal
zone, and the numbers of tube snails were counted in 0.0625 m2 and 0.25 m2 quadrats. Finally,
one transect was run in the high-intertidal zone for L. planaris, with 0.0625 m2 and 0.25 m¬
quadrats.
The precision of the counts for each transect was calculated using the following formula:
P =SE/X,
where p is the precision of a set of counts, SE is the standard error of the counts for one transect,
and Xis the average count per quadrat for that transect (Underwood 1981). Then, setting the
desired precision at the lowest value obtained for the different quadrat sizes, the number of
