I. Fu
(Spatial scales of variation)
quadrats of each size that would need to be counted to obtain this level of precision was determined
for each quadrat size and species. Based on the assumption that a 1.0 m2 quadrat takes 16 times
the effort needed to examine a 0.0625 m2 quadrat, the cost of counting the number of quadrats
needed to get the desired precision was calculated for each quadrat size using the following
equation:
C=nc,
where Cr is the total cost of the sampling effort (time), n'is the number of quadrats of a particular
size needed to obtain the desired precision level, and cis the cost in terms of time and effort needed
to count a quadrat of a particular size (Underwood 1981). The quadrat size that resulted in the
lowest total cost for each species was then used in the second part of the study.
Determination of the spatial variation of three species
Sampling methods for the second part of the experiment were similar to those used in the
preliminary study, except that the transects were 15 rather than 20 meters in length and only the
optimal quadrat size for each species was used. For all the species, the study involved sampling at
the following four spatial scales: sites, which were kilometers apart; subsites within sites, which
were separated by roughly 100 meters; transects within subsites, which were about 10 meters from
each other; and quadrats, which were on the scale of meters apart. This was a fully nested
sampling design, with a specific number of quadrats counted for each transect, three transects
counted in each subsite, and two subsites examined for every site that was chosen (Fig. 2).
For L. limatula, the four sites chosen were HMS, Carmel, Point Pinos, and the Great Tide
Pool (Fig.1). Along each transect, 20 0.0625 m2 quadrats were counted. For S. squamigerus,
three sites were chosen-HMS, the area between Fisherman's Wharf and the Coast Guard wharf,
and Point Pinos (Fig. 1). Five 0.25 m2 quadrats were counted for each transect. For L. planaris,
the three sites chosen were HMS, Carmel, and Point Pinos (Fig. 1), and eight 0.0625 m2 quadrats
were counted per transect.
