I. Fu
(Spatial scales of variation)
Introduction:
One problem often encountered in sampling is that the patchiness of the distribution of an
organism is often not known before a study is conducted. A common method to assess differences
between sites is to take replicate samples, on a spatial scale of meters, within sites that themselves
may be separated by kilometers. The problem with this sampling design is that it will not be able
to detect variation on spatial scales between meters and kilometers. If an organism is patchy on the
scale of hundreds of meters, all of the one-meter replicates may fall between two patches, resulting
in a low mean abundance for that organism in that site. On the other hand, the replicates for the
other site may all fall within one large patch, resulting in a high mean abundance at the second site.
Using this sampling method, the two sites would incorrectly appear to have very different mean
abundances, when they are actually fairly similar. One solution to this problem is to employ a
nested sampling design, in which replicate samples are taken at different spatial scales so that
variations at intermediate spatial scales can be distinguished.
In this study, sampling for three intertidal invertebrates was done following a fully nested
design. The species studied were Lottia limatula, a limpet found in the middle to low intertidal
zone; Serpulorbis squamigerus, a tube snail found low in the intertidal zone or subtidally; and
Littorina planaxis, a periwinkle abundant on the rocks of the high intertidal zone. Although
numerous studies have been conducted on the limpet, little work has been done on its abundance
and distribution. Some studies have determined the number of limpets at one or several particular
sites in the Monterey Peninsula area (Ruth 1948, Hahn 1985), but the overall patterns of
distribution for this well-studied limpet are not known. S. squamigerus occurs in concentrations
of up to 650 m 2 in southern California (Pequegnat 1964) and has been seen singly or in clusters in
central California (Morris et al. 1980). In the last decade or so, the abundance of the tube snail has
increased dramatically in the Monterey area (C. Baxter, pers. comm.). Although the species is
noted as gregarious by a number of studies (Holmes 1900, Morton 1965, MacGinitie &
MacGinitie 1968), the larger spatial scales of variation for this organism are not known. L.
planaris group together in cracks or other irregularities in the rock surface, and it has been
