(Spatial scales of variation)
I. Fu
settle on or near adults of the same species (Hadfield 1966). This continual addition of new
individuals to areas near established populations could result in the larger spatial scale of patchiness
that was observed for this species. Also, if some of the larvae settle in the existing large patches,
then variation could occur within the patches at smaller spatial scales. A particle feeder, the tube
snail spins delicate mucus webs to trap its food and therefore prefers more quiet water (Keen
1960). At HMS, the tube snails had a much higher mean density in the subsite that was more
protected from wave action than in the subsite that was more exposed (Fig. 4). Thus, localized
variation in water motion could also contribute to spatial patchiness.
The observed distribution of L. planaris did not closely follow that of a Poisson
distribution. An I of 1.55 for the organism suggests a clumped distribution, which is supported
by previous studies on the natural history of this snail. Miyamoto (1964) theorized that L. planaxis
tends to cluster in cracks in an attempt to reduce desiccation, and Bush (1964) has shown that
groups of snails desiccate at a slower rate than single individuals in both laboratory and field
conditions. If the snails are grouped together in cracks or irregularities in the rocks, their
distribution will be clumped, with most of the variation occurring on the spatial scale of meters.
Mating behavior in L. planaxis could also affect its patterns of distribution, for males can often be
found sitting on the shells of females throughout the year, although reproduction in mass seems to
be confined to spring and summer (Ricketts et al. 1952, Gibson 1964). Other possible factors
include the abundance and distribution of the predatory snail Acanthina spirata, which releases a
waterborne chemical stimulus that elicits an avoidance reaction in the L. planaxis; the tendency of
the snails to follow mucus trails laid down by other snails (Peters 1964); and wave action, which
appears to selectively knock larger snails off of rock faces (Bigler 1964). All or a combination of
these factors may have contributed to the variation observed at a spatial scale smaller than tens of
meters for L. planaxis.
Limpet distribution did not depart strongly from a Poisson distribution (Dp-O. 13). This
appears to contradict the l, which indicates a rather clumped distribution (I-3.6). The apparent
conflict may be due to the overall low abundance of limpets. Iy is very sensitive to the Var/X
