Figure legends:
Fig. 1: Map of the Monterey Peninsula area, showing the four sites that were sampled in
this study
Fig. 2: Nested sampling design used in the study. Three or four sites were sampled per
species, with two subsites nested within each site, three transects nested within each
subsite, and a particular number of quadrats for each transect. The number of quadrats
varied for the different species
Fig. 3: Mean densities of Lottia limatula at the different spatial scales. Each vertical bar
represents the mean limpet density for a particular transect. The arrows point to the mean
limpet densities for subsites, and the mean limpet density for a site is seen by finding the
halfway point between the two arrows for the subsites of that site. The error bars are the
standard errors.
Fig. 4: Mean densities of Serpulorbis squamigerus at the different spatial scales. Each
vertical bar represents the mean limpet density for a particular transect. The arrows point to
the mean limpet densities for subsites, and the mean limpet density for a site is seen by
finding the halfway point between the two arrows for the subsites of that site. The error
bars are the standard errors.
Fig. S: Mean densities of Littorina planaxis at the different spatial scales. Each vertical bar
represents the mean limpet density for a particular transect. The arrows point to the mean
limpet densities for subsites, and the mean limpet density for a site is seen by finding the
halfway point between the two arrows for the subsites of that site. The error bars are the
standard errors.
Fig. 6: Percentage of the total variance contributed by each level of nesting in the sampling
design.
Fig. 7: A) Graph of the observed distribution of Lottia limatula and the Poisson
distribution for the same mean, showing a large degree of overlap between the two plots.
B) Graph of the observed distribution of Serpulorbis squamigerus and the Poisson
distribution for the same mean, showing very little overlap between the two plots. C
Graph of the observed distribution of Littorina planaxis and the Poisson distribution for the
same mean, showing some overlap between the two plots.
