Page 7
Findings by Foster (1977), indicate that the response of Tigriopus to
wave shock in the tidepool and to turbulence in the lab is one of a strong
positive thigmotropism. Animals deprived of a substrate were noted in this
study to cling to one another in both the evaporation and oxygen corsumption
experiments, presumably as an attempt to satisfy this response.
A negative phototactic effect under stress is well substantiated
by laboratory and field work. Combined with the thigmotropic response,
a reaction to stress is seen wherein Tigricpus will move towards the dark
areas of the tidepool and cling to the substrate. These locations tend
to be the damp cracks and under sides of rocks, areas which are the last
to be completely dessicated.
That clumps are formed under stress does not necessarily follow from
the above explanation. Some other response must arise that induces the
formation of distinct clumps rather than solitary clinging in shaded places.
Cooper (1977) and Bozic (1975) suggest that Tigriopus are attracted
to one another and that there may be a chemical stimulus involved.
This attraction might be expected to increase in both magnitude and effect
under stress due to: 1) The greater concentration of "attractant" in
areas to which Tigriopus have been directed by the phototactic and
thigmotactic responses; 2) a change in the response to the attractant under
stress. This model has Tigriopus tending to be attracted by other
animals to a particular area and cued to clump there under stress. This
theory does not preclude the formation of a number of clumps if an animal
is assumed to move towards the strongest attraction it perceives, this
being a different location for some animals, and once fixed to the substrate,
remain there. That clumps do form in the dark when the directional cue of
lighting is not present is also well suited to this model.
An experiment suggested hare is to test the effect of extreme high
densities of Tigriopus under non-stressful conditions. Indications are that
