in the case of high concentrations of Mg Ca2 on the other hand, seems to
slightly enhance discharge. As the cerata are placed under a cover slip, they
continue contracting. Several minutes of contraction and extension may be
necessary before cnidophages begin passing through the cnidopore. In
Ca-free media, which prevents natural pulsating of the cerata, discharge is
consistently reduced. The solutions in which cerata cease contracting are
MgCl Intracellular Medium-EGTA, and Sodium Citrate. Under these conditions,
cerata must be forced to extrude nematocysts using pressure on the cover slip
The nematocysts emerge in abnormally large masses and few threads evert.
Passage through the cnidopore, therefore, is not sufficient to induce discharge
Mge seems to be a secondary effector in the case of nematocyst discharge; its
critical action is on the activity of the cerata.
The hypothesis that external calcium stabalizes undischarged capsules
becomes more suspect considering the action of sodium citrate. My data are
exactly in accord with Blanquet's (1970) for anemones that discharge increases
as Na-citrate concentration declines. (Figure 4) This is the opposite of what one
would expect because citrate, as a calcium chelator, should reduce the level of
calcium in the medium as its osmolarity rises. Discharge should therefore
become more frequent at high concentrations of citrate. I would suggest that
the effect of 1.0 M citrate results from its viscosity rather than its ionic effects
a viscous solution may discourage eversion of the tubule This could be tested by
substituting a sodium citrate concentration of comparable Ca2 chelating action
for EGTA in intracellular medium and comparing the rate of discharge for inact
cerata.
The failure of all kinds of agents to elicit nematocyst discharge in vitro
leads to speculation that the cnidophage cells play a role in triggering eversion
of the thread. One possible mechanism is that contact of the cnidophage
membrane with sea vater activates a second messenger within the cell that
