prevent or permit eversion. Packaged like a coiled spring, the thread is
constantly straining to straighten itself and any disruption of the apical flaps
that hold it in place allows it to shoot out. Watson and Mariscal (1985) propose
that binding of an attached protein to calcium holds the flap in place.
Departure of calcium, therefore, causes a loostening of the flaps and the tubule
everts. (3) It has been suggested that contractile action of fibers in the capsule
or in surrounding structures causes the tubule to squirt out. (D. Hessinger.
personal communication)
As unresolved as the mechanism of discharge is the identity of stimuli
that initiate the process. Blanquet (1970) found that nematocysts isolated from
sea anemones appeared to be stabilized against discharge by divalent cations.
particularly Mg- and Ca*; high concentrations of K', on the other hand,
caused them to discharge more readily than in sea water. Having acquainted
myself with the behavior of nematocysts from the anemone, I decided to
compare this system with that of the aolid nudibranch. These nudibranchs
store nematocysts from their cnidarian prey in specialized gut projections
called cerata and release them for defense against predators. The cerata extend
dorsally, each terminating in a specialized structure called the cnidosac. (Figure
1) A sphincter muscle forms a narrow channel separating the cnidosac from
the rest of the gut. Nematocysts pass into the cnidosac where they are
endocytosed by specialized cells called cnidophages. When alarmed, the
nudibranch releases cnidophages through a pore in the ceras tip called the
cnidopore and nematocysts discharge. Whether the pore preexists or is
produced by rupture of the epithelium remains controversial (Greenwood and
Mariscal, 1984). What conditions does the nudibranch have to provide for its
acquired cnidae so that they function properly? Do the nematocysts simply
discharge upon contact with sea water when the cnidophage membrane
ruptures, as suggested by Greenwood and Mariscal, (1984), or is the system more
