then activates specialized proteins, signalling its nematocysts to fire. Another
possibility is that some helper cell sends a signal to the cnidophage that then
activates a second messenger. The second messenger hypothesis appears
reasonable especially because of the recent discovery that anemone's have
receptor-bearing cells next to the cnidocytes containing nematocysts (Mariscal,
Conklin, and Bigger. 1978). Upon sensing food material, the effector cell is
thought to signal the adjacent cell to fire its nematocysts. Application of five
second-messenger stimulating agents to intact cnidophages, however, failed to
elicit a response. As nematocysts expelled by an intact cerata into each of these
agents discharged normally, the agent could not have poisoned them to
discharge. One would therefore have to conclude that none of the second
messengers tested is work here.
Some incidental observations about the physiology of isolated
cnidophages raises additional questions. The cnidophage lumen is almost
completely occupied by the nematocysts it contains. Usually two large
nematocysts dictate its long dimension and a number of smaller ones cluster
parallel to these at one end. (Figure 2) Five or more flagella may be observed at
one end of the cell, which beat frantically in sea water. In the cnidosac,
cnidophages are densely packed with little opportunity for motion. Under close
inspection, the contents of the semi-transparent cnidosac do not seem to be
moving around. One might inquire, then, why are the cnidophages flagellated
They seem to have no need of locomotion within the cnidosac and usually do not
survive extrusion from it. Perhaps the flagella are an evolutionary remnant in
an organism that was once independently viable. They also may facilitate
communication among cnidophages or between cnidophages and other cells. It
would be interesting to make a CDNA library from the cnidophage RNA and
screen it against the nudibranch genome to asses their similarity or difference.
Another interesting question is to what extent cnidophage cells take up
10
