weeks (e.g. Tuesday). Peaks in the exploitation of sandy beaches by humans have also been
found during the afternoon on weekends, in South Africa (van Herwerden et al. 1989).
Most visitors to Point Pinos never traveled beyond the Parking Lot or Shore. In fact,
"sitting in the car" was the highest ranking activity recorded. Of the visitors who left their cars or
bus, very few entered the rocky intertidal and, therefore, did not have much impact on it. This is
not the case at other marine refuges along the California coast, such as Dana Point Marine Life
Refuge located in southern California, where 1,443 persons visited the rocky intertidal in a single
afternoon (Murray 1997). We sampled for almost two months before reaching just twice that
amount. As fishing and collecting in the Intertidal zone were rare and walking/standing occurred
most often, trampling was the only form of human disturbance that was considered to have a
potentially important direct effect on populations in the rocky intertidal.
Few comparative data have been published on quantitative analysis of human activity in
the rocky intertidal. Most studies have focused on the collection of intertidal invertebrates and,
consequently, employ entirely different sampling methods for human activities. Concerned only
with determining the intense recreational fishing activity at a site located along the coast of New
South Wales, Kingsford et al. (1991) did not consider "walkers" as potential tramplers in the
intertidal community. Although Murray (1997) has performed studies on visitor pressures to the
intertidal in southern California and the possible impact on the abundance of susceptible algae,
his published literature primarily focuses on collecting. To more accurately describe intensity of
collecting by visitors, Murray standardized the counts of people by time, whereas we
standardized the counts by the area of the affected Zone. The lack of uniform sampling methods
for human activity and lack of consistent standardized measurements make comparisons between
our estimated intensities and theirs difficult. A reasonable unit of measure that would permit
