for low-use comparison because their physical characteristics were extremely different from
those of Lot 2 and Point Beach. The intertidal substratum of Vertical comprised steep rock
bench, whereas both Lot 2 and Point Beach had gently sloping boulder fields. The intertidal area
at Lot 1 was too small to run all six transects at the desired tide height. The most comparable
low-use Sites were Banana and Great Tidepool, both of which had a rocky intertidal composed of
boulder fields at the desired tide height.
Mats composed of M. papillatus, M. affinis and E. muricata were present at all four sites,
as were corallines and encrusting algae (Table 1). The low-use sites, Banana and Great Tidepool,
had much more diverse communities, including P. compressa, Mazzealla flaccida, Fucus
gardneri and Anthopluera spp.. These species were present at Point Beach as well, but in far
smaller numbers (35% within a quadrat), and were completely absent at Lot 2. The algae, such as
Cladophora sericea and Gastroclonium subarticulatum, that were rare (ยง1% within a quadrat) in
the low-use Sites were not observed in the high-use Sites.
Throughout our sampling many species were observed but only eight were abundant
enough to analyze statistically (Table 2). There were significant differences between high-use
and low-use Sites for both bare space and P. compressa. Bare space was considerably lower at
Banana and only slightly lower at Great Tidepool compared to the two high-use Sites (Fig. 9).
There was significant variation between transects within each site, except at Banana. P.
compressa was virtually absent at the high-use Sites, while cover was between 8% and 10% at
the low-use Sites (Fig. 10). There was also significant variation between transects at the Sites
where P. compressa was present, indicating patchy species distributions within each Site.
Coralline and E. muricata populations showed significant differences between high-use and
low-use Sites as well. Cover of E. muricata was relatively consistent at Banana, Great Tidepool
