Figure Legend
Fig. 1. The nine study Sites at Point Pinos, with dotted lines indicating parking lots. Lot 2 and Point Beach
were the high-use Sites. Great Tidepool and Banana were the low-use Sites. See the appendix for the area
(in hectares) of each of the three zones within each Site. See the appendix for descriptions of each Site.
Fig. 2. Average people sweep" in the intertidal (A), and in either the parking lot or shore (B), summed over
the entire Point in the morning, midday and evening. Number of sweeps taken at each time of day written
above columns. Error bars represent the standard error of the mean.
Fig. 3. Average people sweep" summed over the entire Point at low, mid and high tide. Tide height in feet
above mean lower low water. Number of sweeps taken at each tide height written above columns. Error
bars represent the standard error of the mean.
Fig. 4. Average intensity per day of the week in people ha" sweep" summed over the entire Point. Circles
represent the average intensity for a given day within a given week. The line connects the average intensity
for a given day summed over all the weeks.
Fig. 5. Average daily intensity in people ha" sweep" summed over the entire Point for the months of April
and May. The dashed line represents the total average intensity in all three zones. The solid line shows the
average intensity in only the intertidal.
Fig. 6. Average intensity in people ha" sweep" for each of the three zones within each Site.
Fig. 7. Average intensity in people ha" sweep" in the intertidal at each Site.
Fig. 8. Percent of intertidal visitors in the high, mid and low intertidal at each site. The total count of
visitors to the intertidal for each Site is listed above the columns.
Fig. 9, Percent cover of bare space per 0.25 m2 at each Site sampled. There were 6 transects, each with 5
quadrats, at each Site. Low-use Sites are on the left and high-use Sites are on the right. Circles represent the
mean percent cover per 0.25 m2 for each transect within each Site. The line connects the mean percent
cover per 0.25 m2 at each Site.
Fig. 10, Percent cover of P. compressa per 0.25 m2 at low-use and high-use Sites. There were 6 transects,
each with 5 quadrats, at each Site. Figure format as described in fig. 9.
Fig. 11. Percent cover of E. muricata per 0.25 m2 at low-use and high-use Sites. There were 6 transects,
each with 5 quadrats, at each Site. Figure format as described in fig. 9.
Fig, 12, Percent cover of coralline algae per 0.25 m2 at low-use and high-use Sites. There were 6 transects,
each with 5 quadrats, at each Site. Figure format as described in fig. 9.
Fig. 13. Mean number of limpets per 0.25 m2 at each Site sampled. There were 6 transects, each with 5
quadrats, at each Site. Low-use Sites are on the left and high-use Sites are on the right. Circles represent the
mean number of limpets per 0.25 m2 for each transect within each Site. The line connects the mean number
of limpets per 0.25 m2 at each Site.
Fig, 14. Percent cover of M. papillatus per 0.25 m2 at low-use and high-use Sites. There were 6 transects,
each with 5 quadrats, at each Site. Figure format as described in fig. 9.
Fig, 15. Percent cover of M. affinis per 0.25 m2 at low-use and high-use Sites. There were 6 transects, each
with 5 quadrats, at each Site. Figure format as described in fig. 9.
Fig. 16. Percent cover of encrusting algae per 0.25 m2 at low-use and high-use Sites. There were 6
transects, each with 5 quadrats, at each Site. Figure format as described in fig. 9.
