and localized, but trampling tends to be more constant and regular (Keough and Quinn 1998).
Schiel and Taylor (1999) suggest that chronic trampling can prevent recovery by hindering
successful recruitment and re-growth. Therefore recovery depends not only on a reduction or
cessation of human disturbance but also on an adequate source of propagules from healthy,
reproductive adult algae.
Trampling, even in moderate degrees, can effect community structure on rocky shores
and may shift the community to an alternate state. Fletcher and Frid (1996) defined 'recreational
carrying capacity' as only 20 footsteps per m’, applied once every set of spring tides. This is as
few as only five people walking the same path' through the rocky intertidal. Trampling within
portions of the high and mid intertidal at Point Pinos certainly exceeds this intensity of use.
Communities can recover from the effects of trampling although its frequency and intensity
make it a particularly relentless stress (Brosnan and Crumrine 1994; Brown and Taylor 1999).
Intertidal community structure varies considerably from Site to Site along Point Pinos.
This is evident from the statistical analysis of our results, indicating significant differences
among transects within Sites as well as among all four Sites. Despite uneven population
distribution, there is a clear difference between the high-use and low-use Sites. Species are more
diverse and more abundant at the low-use Sites.
There are several ways in which trampling may cause these effects. Trampling is a
disturbance because it can damage or remove species and create patches of bare space (sensu
Sousa, 1985; Brosnan and Crumrine 1994; Kim and DeWreede 1996). Povey and Keough (1991)
found persistent trampling results in the replacement of algal communities with bare rock.
Bare space is highest at our two high-use Sites, Lot 2 and Point Beach. Although bare
space is also relatively high at Great Tidepool, P. compressa and other susceptible algae make up
