Abstract
Benthocodon pedunculata is a deep-sea benthopelagic medusa
found abundantly in Monterey Bay and Carmel Bay,which has been
virtually ignored since its original description (Bigelow, 1913). Recent
observations from a remotely operated vehicle (ROV), working in the
Monterey Submarine Canyon, reveal that the medusae live primarily
near the deep-sea floor and may be potential predators of benthic or
benthopelagic crustaceans. This study investigates the gross
morphology of the medusae, tentacle types, and nematocyst types.
Phase contrast microscopy and scanning electron microscopy were
used to detect morphological differences between the inner and
outer tentacles and also revealed two nematocyst types previously
undescribed in the literature, the modified-aspirotele nematocyst
and the modified-stenotele nematocyst. The inner tentacles are
annulated, with rings of both nematocyst types, and contain digestive
inclusions, which may aid in digestion or storage. The outer tentacles
have an abscission point and are readily discarded. They are coverec
with both nematocyst types and are possibly used for encountering
and capturing prey. Gut analyses of medusae yielded copepods,
amphipods, foraminiferans, pycnogonid, and other unidentified
organisms which, along with data on distribution and abundance of
crustacean zooplankton in Monterey Canyon (Kelly, 1992), show that
the medusae are feeding on benthic and benthopelagic organisms.
Based on the results of this study, a model of tentacular function in
feeding medusae was generated to show that the outer and inner
tentacles of Benthocodon pedunculata may entrap prey during
different pulsation periods of the umbrella. Further gut analyses and
in situ observations of feeding medusae would be helpful in further
resolving the foraging and feeding biology of B. pedunculata.
Introduction
The benthopelagic medusae Crossota pedunculata was
originally described by Bigelow (1913) and later renamed as
Benthocodon pedunculata (Larson and Harbison, 1990). Dives made
with a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) in Monterey Bay (U.S.A.)
have typically found aggregations of medusae at depths between 500
m and 900 m, within 5 m of the sea floor. This environment is
characterized by an increase in biomass, including medusae
