INTRODUCTION
The global distribution of marine organisms is influenced by a wide
variety of physical factors, with temperature playing a dominant role (Dalhoff
and Somero, 1993). In many areas of the marine environment temperatures
remain fairly constant over significant distances and periods of time. Along
the rocky intertidal, however, temperatures can vary drastically within
narrow spatial and temporal ranges. These temperature gradients, in
conjunction with a variety of other factors, have been shown to cause discrete
zonation patterns for numerous organisms (Stillman and Somero, 1996;
Jensen, 1995
Crabs of the genus Petrolisthes (Anomura: Porcellamidae) are a highly
speciose group of intertidal and subtidal organisms which have been found
all along the Pacific coast (Haig, 1960). Different species within this genus
have been shown to inhabit separate microhabitats based on both their
longitudinal and vertical distributions (Jensen, 1995). In the rocky intertidal
areas of Monterey Bay, two species of Petrolithes can be easily found: P
cinctipes, an intertidal species, and P. manimaculis, a subtidal species. Based
in their vertical distribution patterns, these species experience different
temperature and emersion patterns. Individuals of P. cinctipes have been
shown to encounter maximal temperatures ranging from 24-32°C and
significant periods of emersion (maximum of 6-8 hours, two times per day).
The more subtidal species, P. manimaculis, on the other hand, sees maximal
temperatures within the range of 18-19°C and experiences less emersion time
(maximum 3-5 hours once per day, and only during spring tides) (Stillman,
personal communication).
The difference in habitat conditions between these two species has
raised some interesting questions. Temperature can affect numerous aspects
of an organism’s physiology from its motility to its ability to reproduce. Many
of the physiological effects caused by temperature occur due to changes at the
level of protein structure and function. In order to better understand
temperature effects, research has focused on trying to elucidate some of the
factors that establish thermal tolerance differences between organisms.
Results have shown that small changes in both the cellular environment of
the protein as well as subtle differences in protein structure can have
significant effects on thermal stability. For example, Dahlhoff and Somero
