manimaculis . The inability to generate a change in thermal stability upon
acclimation does not discredit stabilizing solutes as a possible mechanism.
Instead, it suggests that whatever is used to elevate the thermal stability of
LDH was not affected by the organisms within the 36 day time scale of our
experiment. The consistency of our data throughout the duration of the
experiment seems to imply that thermal stability is a fairly conserved and
regulated feature. Whatever causes the difference in LDH thermal stability
between species is maintained despite changes in environmental conditions.
There is also the possibility that other factors of our experimental
design had significant effects on our results. It should be noted that each
condition (subtidal and intertidal) was found in only one experimental pool.
Without replication we were unable to use a nested ANÖVA analysis to
account for any underlying variation within our tanks. Furthermore, the
lack of replication meant that both species of crab were found together in a
single experimental tank. Use of a two factor ANOVA within species is,
therefore, not entirely applicable. However, one of the three factors, species
accounted for most of the variation present (Mean Square = 3500.364) which
might have overwhelmed the ability to note any variation attributed to the
other two factors of time and treatment. We ran two factor ANÖVAs despite
the issue mentioned above in order to determine how the variance was
partitioned between the remaining factors, treatment and time.
One factor that we hypothesized might have affected our ability to note
any acclimation affect was the experimental duration. While previous
studies of temperature acclimation suggest that 36 days (Lin and Somero,
1994) should be long enough to see an effect, there is the possibility that the
extension of the experiment would have demonstrated some change in
thermal stability of the LDH supernatant. We also noted during our
dissection procedures that the specimens we used were in different stages of
both reproductive and molt cycles. It is not known what effect molting or
reproduction might play in changing the intracellular environment of the
crabs. Another factor which might have had an effect on our ability to see any
significant change with acclimation was the fact that the crabs in this study
were fed a diet that was different from what they receive in their natural
environment. Porcelain crabs are not scavengers or predators, but rather are
filter feeders which use their maxillipeds to strain material from the water
(Jensen, 1995). If the crabs in the study were lacking a constituent in their
