(1993) demonstrated that molluscs of the genus Haliotis show protein
adaptations correlated with differences in habitat temperatures (Dahlhoff and
Somero, 1993). Previous studies have also investigated the thermal tolerance
of two species of Porcelain crab, P. cinctipes and P. manimaculis, as indexed by
the thermal stability of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), a glycolytic enzyme. The
results of this work have shown two interesting phenomena (J.H. Stillman,
unpublished data) (Figure 1). First the thermal stability of LDH from P.
manimaculis is consistently lower than that from P. cinctipes. Second, there
is a difference in thermal stability of LDH between homogenate supernatants
and the purified enzyme. This difference was most pronounced for P.
cinctipes. The thermal stability of purified LDH from both species was
practically identical. (J.H. Stillman, unpublished data). These data suggest that
a change in the protein’s cellular surroundings, rather than a change in the
protein sequence itself, is responsible for the increased thermal stability of
LDH from P. cinctipes.
If a difference between the two species in the milieu surrounding LDH
is in fact causing the increased thermal stability of LDH from P. cinctipes,
perhaps this is a trait which is able to be manipulated by the organism based
on the conditions of its natural habitat. Because P. cinctipes and P.
manimaculis live in different habitats, studying the effect of their
environment on the thermal stability of LDH could provide some insight
into the method of stabilization found in P. cinctipes. We hypothesized that if
exposed to experimental environments similar to those seen in the natural
environment, that is P. cinctipes in simulated intertidal conditions and P.
manimaculis in simulated subtidal conditions, the thermal stability of LDH
from both species would remain unchanged by experimental manipulation.
Similarly, the thermal stability of LDH for P. cinctipes exposed to simulated
subtidal conditions would remain unchanged since the experimental
conditions would be less thermally stressful than the conditions it
experiences in its natural environment. However, for P. manimaculis
exposed to the increased stress of the simulated intertidal conditions, it is
possible that the thermal stability of supernatant LDH would increase. To
investigate this hypothesis, we examined the acclimation of thermal stability
of LDH in claw muscle supernatant from both species, by exposing specimens
to either subtidal conditions (continual immersion) or intertidal conditions
(periods of emersion).
