demonstrated that this significance could be attributed to a recovery of 15.52%
for intertidal P. manimaculis as compared to all other recoveries which were
approximately 90% or above. (Table 2)
Dialysis
The thermal stability of LDH in a homogenate supernatant for P.
cinctipes showed the highest stability after 2 hours of dialysis, as measured by
half-life relative to 0 hours (Figure 7). For both 2 and 4 hours of dialysis the
stabilities were elevated above that measured at 0 hours of dialysis. For P.
manimaculis all three (2, 4, and 17 hour) time points assayed showed an
increase in half-life relative to 0 hours of dialysis. None of the increases
noted for these assays, however, were to the same extent as that seen for
either the two or four hour time points of P. cinctipes. The final thermal
stability of LDH from P. manimaculis (6.96 minutes)was lower than that from
P. cinctipes (24.73 minutes).
DISCUSSION
Thermal Stabilities
Studies on proteins have demonstrated the existence of several
different mechanisms capable of causing changes in protein thermal stability.
On an evolutionary time scale, small changes in amino acid sequence of a
protein have been shown to affect protein thermal stability (Somero, 1995
Differences in the kinetic properties of proteins from congeners occurring in
different thermal habitats have provided evidence for variation of protein
structure based in adaptive response to environmental temperature. On a
much shorter time scale, animals have been shown to display differential
production of specific isozymes with acclimation conditions (Lin and Somero,
1994). Both of these mechanisms of adaptation, however, are at the level of
protein structure. Protein stabilization has also been shown to be affected by
the presence of other molecules within the proteins’ cellular environment
such as inorganic ions (Voordouw et al., 1976; Lara et al., 1990) and organic
solutes, as well as other proteins (e.g. heat shock proteins) (Somero, 1995)
We hypothesize that it is a difference in the cellular environments
surrounding LDH between the two species that is the mechanism causing the
thermal stability of LDH from P. cinctipes to be higher than that of P.
