MATERIALS AND METHODS
Specimen Collection and Acclimation
Crabs used in the study were collected during low tide on 9 April 1997
from Fisherman’s Wharf in Monterey Bay, California, and immediately
transported to Hopkins Marine Station, where they were held in flow
through aquaria until being placed into the experimental pools at 4:00 pm on
14 April, 1997. The pools were constructed from two hard plastic "kiddy
pools" (K-Mart). Each tank was supplied with an inflow of local seawater, and
a drainage site was constructed from PVC tubing. A two inch layer of gravel (2
cm in diameter) was placed on the floor to insure the retention of moisture
during emersion. To simulate natural conditions, rocks collected from the
intertidal region of Hopkins Marine Station were placed in each pool, fully
covering the gravel. Water level was regulated by valves controlling both
inflow and drainage. Overflow was prevented by drilling holes around the
upper rim of each pool.
Specimens were divided into the two experimental pools with 182 P.
cinctipes and 94 P. manimaculis per pool. An effort was made to maintain a
similar size distribution for each species. We simulated intertidal conditions
by draining one pool on a daily basis from 10:00 am until 3:30 pm, during
which time it was exposed to full sunlight. To simulate subtidal conditions,
water levels remained high in the other experimental pool. The crabs in each
pool were fed in the evenings on a semi-daily basis by dissolving two frozen
cubes consisting of a one to one ratio of seawater and fish pellet homogenate
(10.3 grams/tub)(Moor-Clark, Washington).
Specimens for analysis were collected, wrapped in aluminum
foil, and immediately frozen at -80°C and kept at this temperature until use.
Collection of specimens occurred on the following days of the experiment:
Collection (9 April), Day 1 (14 April), Day 4 (17 April), Day 8 (21 April), Day 15
(28 April), Day 22 (5 May), Day 29 (12 May), Day 36 (19 May). Five individuals
from each treatment pool were collected at each time point except for Day 29
and Day 36 when eight crabs from each pool were collected.
