presence of a small stabilizing molecule in the supernatant of P. cinctipes.
The increase in thermal stability relative to 0 hours for both species is a point
of question and could possibly be attributed to experimental error. If the zero
time point is ignored, however, the noticeably larger decrease in thermal
stability of LDH for P. cinctipes over the course of dialysis is what would be
expected if some small molecule providing stabilization was being dialyzed
away. The final half-life for P. cinctipes is still noticeably higher after 17
hours of dialysis than that of P. manimaculis (6.96 minutes for P.
manimaculis compared to 24.73 for P. cinctipes) despite the similarity in
thermal stability of purified LDH from both species. This suggests that
repetition of the dialysis experiment should follow a longer time course.
Studies have also implied that some stabilizing molecules may bind tightly to
the protein itself and would, therefore, take longer to dialyze away (J.
Carpenter, personal communication.). Running the experiment with both a
larger sample size and for a longer duration will help to elucidate the effects
of other cellular constituents on the thermal stability of LDH from Petrolithes
specie:
In summary, the data that we gathered suggest that acclimation did not
occur within the time and duration of our experiment. Rather we noted a
conservation of protein stability throughout the time course of the
experiment. This high degree of regulation, however, does not seem to be
linked to a difference in protein sequence, but implies the use of some other
mechanism. What this mechanism is remains unclear. Although the basic
trend of our dialysis experiment (excluding the zero time point) suggests the
possible involvement of some low-molecular-weight solute, the change in
stability over time for P. cinctipes was hardly considerable. This absolute
stability measurement tentatively suggest that the use of low-molecular¬
weight molecules may not be the mechanism responsible for the differences
in stability between species. Despite the uncertainty of the underlying
mechanism, significant difference in the survivorship between species
among the simulated intertidal and subtidal pools suggests that P. cinctipes is
