for Day 4 subtidal, Day 8 intertidal and subtidal, Day 22 intertidal and subtidal
and n-4: for Day 4 intertidal, Day 36 intertidal and subtidal), but in the study
of P. manimaculis the number of sampled individuals was always four.
Survivorship
Survivorship was determined by collecting the crabs remaining in the
experimental pools at the end of the 36 day treatment period. The number of
crabs remaining was compared to the number expected to remain from the
original numbers once the 36 specimens collected throughout the duration of
the experiment were accounted for. Data were analyzed by a G-test for
independence (Sokal and Rolf, 1995)
Dialysis
Crabs collected from Fisherman’s Wharf in Monterey at low tide on 10
May 1997 and frozen at -80wC were used. Tissue was dissected from multiple
individuals of each species (six individuals of P. manimaculis and three of P
cinctipes), combined, and homogenized in six volumes of K-Phos. The
homogenates were spun in the refrigerated centrifuge at 16000 g for 30
minutes and the activities of the samples were then measured. One ml of
each species' supernatant was transferred to an Eppendorf tube and placed in
the refrigerator. The remaining supernatant from each species,
approximately three ml total, was aliquoted into three separate lengths of
dialysis tubing, and dialyzed 2, 4, or 17 hours against two liters of K-Phosphate
buffer pH 6.8. Buffer was replaced with fresh buffer at the end of the two and
four hour time points. After dialysis, the supernatant was removed from the
dialysis tubing, transferred to an Eppendorf tube, and held on ice until LDH
activity was assayed.
After the removal of the final dialysis sample at 17 hours, all of the
supernatant solutions (0, 2, 4, and 17 hours time points) were aliquoted into
80ul volumes and denatured at 70°C in the thermal cycler, as outlined above,
for the tests of thermal stability. Comparisons of the half-life for each time
point of a given species against the half-life for 0 hours of dialysis for that
species were made.
