Markham 8
longer have blades above them with to export mannitol and amino acids to. By contrast as
control stipes continued to add blades, the focal blades became more and more distant from the
apical meristem, and may have shifted from primarily importers to partial exporters. This
bidirectional translocation, both importing and exporting, for blades between.75-1.1m from the
apical meristem as the control blades rapidly grew to in distance would be consistent with
previous work (Lobban 1978a). By exporting a portion of their photo-assimilates and amino
acids to the faster-growing blades above them on the fronds, control blades may have
experienced reduced growth rates. Under these conditions whatever mannitol the blades from
manipulated fronds produced would be used in situ for growth or to a lesser extent be drawn
weakly toward the base and the distant sink of new fronds. This hypothesis of halted acropetal
translocation is consistent with the lower concentrations of mannitol found in blades from
manipulated fronds as compared with controls (fig. 4). In controls the powerful "sink"
represented by the apical meristem and immature blades above the blades of interest would draw
a flow of mannitol acropetally from both the mature blades below and the mid-maturity blades
we measured (Lobban 1978b). This flow could keep levels of mannitol high as was found in our
mannitol assays.
Alternatively it is possible that the findings of Parker (1965) and Lobban (1978a) that
blades without apical meristems have no acropetal translocation were not applicable to this
experiment because of spatial and temporal differences in the experimental setups. Parker
removed not only the apical meristem but the preceding 30 blades as well in order to demonstrate
that fronds without apical meristems had only basipetal translocation. In doing so, he likely
remoyed all immature blades and therefore the osmotic gradient driving translocation. The
blades measured in this experiment would have been amongst the immature blades Parker
