Markham 11
higher growth rates of blades measured at the base from manipulated fronds as compared with
controls (fig. 2) suggests that the differences observed in erosion may be fairly conservative.
However, contrary to our initial hypotheses it is unlikely that this increased erosion is caused by
greater palatability for microbes associated with a reduced C:N ratio since manipulated blades, in
fact, had an elevated C:N ratio and we would expect blades with high microbial abundance to
have a lower C:N ratio (Duggins et al. 1989). Future work should address whether microbes are
in fact responsible for this accelerated breakdown and whether it is perhaps associated with
lower concentrations of polyphenols or higher concentrations of laminarin. Alternatively
increased erosion may be associated with structural difference associated with more rapid growth
rates or higher concentrations of laminarin. Investigating the cause of this accelerated erosion
and whether it occurred in blades that were already mature when the meristem was severed could
reveal interesting insights into the ecological ramifications of apical meristem loss and whether
such loss leads to an accelerated degeneration of cropped fronds.
In focusing on the consequences of changes in translocation for Macrocystis pyrifera
associated with apical meristem loss, this study took a substantially different approach than
previous work focusing on patterns of translocation under typical growing conditions (Parker
1963, 1965; Schmitz & Lobban 1976; Lobban 1978 etc.). The study reveals surprising
ramifications of the removal of apical meristems that merit further investigation into both their
underlying physiological mechanisms and ecological consequences. Our results lead to fürther
questions of whether the changes in erosion rates and chemical composition occur throughout
larger portions of the frond and whether such changes affect interactions with organisms
associated with the kelp, such as microbial biofilms and invertebrate consumers. Answering
these questions may in turn reveal important insights into the mechanisms by which kelp carbon
