Markham 10
is known to be the ephemeral photoassimilate used in translocation, laminarin is known to be a
long-term storage carbohydrate (Lee, 1989). Lee notes that "Laminarin may be formed from
mannitol and during active growth mannitol can be formed faster than its rate of conversion into
laminarin so that both substances increase in amount. When growth slows down or
stops...laminarin increases with loss of mannitol". As the blades from both treatment groups
slowed in their growth over the second week the blades from manipulated fronds may have
converted what mannitol they had to laminarin. This increased conversion may have been due to
longer retention times of mannitol in blades from manipulated fronds without a flow of mannitol
or due to the comparatively greater maturity of these blades compared with those of controls. In
either case, the accretion of the more stable storage carbohydrate laminarin would explain the
higher percent carbon in blades from manipulated fronds. Moreover, a halting of translocation
would mean that the standing stock of mannitol would not be as actively replenished in blades
from manipulated fronds consistent with the reduced concentrations of mannitol. A simple assay
of laminarin concentration should be able to resolve whether the difference in percent carbon can
be attributed to laminarin production (White, Coveny, Robertson, & Clements, 2010).
Despite being confounded by elongation, the measurements of changes in distance
between the punched hole and the blade tip seem to suggest higher rates of erosion in blades
without apical meristems as compared with controls. It seems unlikely that the growth trends
observed in the proximal portion of the blades would be reversed in the distal portions of the
blade since Macrocystis blades lack structural subdivisions and most differences in the tissue
occur in a gradient (Lee 1989). Therefore, the smaller change in average length between the
punched hole and blade tip observed in manipulated blades as compared with controls suggests
that greater erosion occurred in blades from fronds without apical meristems. Additionally, the
