Markham 9
removed in his experiment. Likewise, Lobban simply conducted his experiments bathing blades
of Macrocystis in the field with radio-labeled C-14, on fronds as he encountered them in the field
with or without apical meristems. Considering the growth rates of Macrocystis blades, it seems
quite likely that would not have conducted his experiments in the short period between fronds
losing their apical meristem and the remaining subapical blades becoming mature.
It remains a distinct possibility that the removal of the apical meristems may have caused
accelerated translocation of mannitol and amino acids into the immature sub-apical blades until
the osmotic gradient was dissipated. As the last blade on a severed stipe, the blades from
manipulated fronds in our experiment would be free from competing "sinks" higher on the stipe,
therefore having a considerably weaker draw to export mannitol than controls. These factors
may explain the accelerated growth of blades from manipulated fronds in the first week.
Parker’s work (1965) would have missed this pattern because he removed the immature portion
of the frond entirely. Likewise Lobban, could have failed to observe such translocation by
missing the narrow window in which accelerated acropetal translocation followed meristem loss
can be measured, before it halts as the blades mature and the osmotic gradient dissipates. Future
experimentation could easily resolve these conflicting hypotheses by testing concentrations of
mannitol and amino acids during the period of rapid growth in the week following apical
meristem removal.
Regardless of the cause of the accelerated growth rates in blades from fronds without
apical meristems, this change in growth rate was associated with further shifts in chemical
composition (fig. 5 & 6). The higher percent carbon (fig. 5) coupled with lower concentrations
of mannitol (fig. 4) in blades from fronds without apical meristems, suggest that another form of
carbon different from mannitol is more prevalent as compared with controls. Whereas, mannitol
