an 10-6 M of free calcium.(Epel et al, 1981) Though the data presented here
confirm the previous findings, using a more sophisticated software program to
account for effects of various chelators as well as pH and temperature, revealed a
similar calcium dependency. More accurate estimates of free calcium were difficult
to obtain since calcium buffering with EGTA was prone to error, in part because
extremely small variations in calcium content would have large consequences for
free calcium estimates. For example, a Sum difference in total calcium could cause
a ten-fold change in free calcium concentration.
Keeping these factors in mind, if the on-off switch for NAD kinase is taken
to be between 10-M and 10M of free calcium, this implies that any changes of
free calcium levels could directly control the NAD kinase. Studies that have traced
the pattern of calcium fluctuations during early development reveal that the cell cycle
shows well defined calcium peaks corresponding to specific events of cell division
and embryo development (Poenie et al, 1985).
Supposing that regulation of NAD kinase does occur, this would mean that
there would be varying levels of NADP or NADPH at different time points in the
cell cyle. One role for NADP relates to the ratio of NADP/NADPH levels in the
egg. This is a current area of research in the lab of David Epel, who believes that
redox regulation could be taking place during development as the NADP/NADPH
ratio changes.
On the other hand, one possibility for consequences of regulation of NAD
kinase activity suggests a mechanism for keeping levels of NADP constant. It has
been discovered that a derivative of NADP, along with other pyridine nucleotide
metabolites, stimulate calcium release (Lee et al, 1987). This apparent relationship
between NADP and calcium hints at a possible positive feedback system, in which
NAD kinase could be reactivated at certain stages in the cell cyle. Depletion of
NADP by conversion to its derivative form would be prevented by stimulation of
