minimum depth and this forced the seals to leave. These were the only instances
that distance to an escape route appeared to influence haul out, but the impact was
on general haul out, not age-specific haul out.
Sullivan's work with harbor seals in Humboldt Bay also involved a
substrate of irregularly shaped offshore rocks. His project was centered around
explaining why there existed a predictable spatial patter of the various age
classes within the hauling grounds. The age-structured distribution that he
repeatedly observed was a vertical stratification of age classes in which adult
males occupied the highest, most protected sites while younger seals were forced
to haul out at progressively less favorable areas which were more susceptible to
wave splash. The result was a pyramid shaped distribution with adult males at the
top. Sullivan's group of seals were very social as they aggressively competed for
haul out space on the rocks. Sullivan recorded the frequency and success rate of
eight different aggressive behaviors for each age class. In the end, he concluded
that the age-structured distributions were the result of different success rates of
aggressive behavior for each age class. In other words, the adult males were at
the top of the pyramid because they were the most successful in battles for space
Likewise, the younger animals which occupied less favorable areas were less and
less successful.
In this study, vertical stratification topped by adult males was observed in
two manners, between sites and within sites. An example of "between-site'
vertical stratification is that site 14 (adults only) and site 17 (primarily subadults
and juveniles) are in the same proximity with site 14 being higher than 17.
Within-site" stratification means that when all age classes were present at one
hauling ground, at times adults were the highest and juveniles and pups were the
lowest. However, within-site vertical stratification was not stable and changed
from day to day as subadults and juveniles were also observed as being the
