maximum number of seals hauled out on calm days when the entire study area
experienced a wave intensity factor of 1. The maximum number of seals hauled
out in sites 14-18 on days of heaviest wave action was still less than the maximum
total number of seals that hauled out when all hauling grounds were accessible.
Disturbances were recorded on 7 days. Disturbances were the result of kayaks on
3 days, a helicopter 1 day, and human presence on the shore and in the intertidal
zone the remaining 3 days. After fleeing the hauling ground, some seals
eventually rehauled in the same area while others relocated to a new hauling
ground. On six occasions, seals within a hauling ground fled as a group but no
apparent cause for flight was observed. However, on each of these occasions, the
tide height was less than +1 feet. No rehaul was observed on any of these
occasions. A disturbance often affected those hauling grounds nearest the
disturbance and on 3 occasions, the disturbance did not result in site-abandonment
by all seals. The seals which remained were always adult males and they were
always the highest up within the hauling ground.
Age-structured distribution: The seals in the study area did exhibit an age
structured distribution in some areas, yet a mixing of age classes was the norm
Figures 2-5 illustrate for each hauling ground the percent days that each age class
was observed hauled out with respect to the total number of days any haul out
occurred within the particular site. Upon inspection of these graphs, it is
apparent that not all age classes were observed at each hauling ground, nor were
they observed hauled out with the same frequency. Table 2 provides a summary
of this data. Adults were never observed in sites 7, 17, and 19; subadults never in
sites 12 and 14; juveniles never in sites 9, 12, 14, and 16; and mother/pup pairs
never in sites 3, 7, 13, 14, 16, and 17. It is important to note that mothers were
not counted as adults because it was the pup's ability to remain hauled out which
determined where the mother hauled out. Especially in early May, it was not
