highest age class. Therefore, the spatial age patterns which Sullivan observed
were present in the study area but they did not occur with the same predictable
regularity.
The complex social interactions that Sullivan had observed and concluded
were the cause of the age-structured distribution were not seen in this study. One
possible explanation for this lack of aggressive behavior is that space is not a
limited resource in this area. This is likely since even on the day with the largest
total count, there was still space left for haul out but no seals tried to obtain this
space. Furthermore, there were several occasions where a seal approached a
hauling ground which was occupied by a smaller age class and after surveying
this hauling ground, the bigger seal proceeded to haul out at a different location
rather than forcing the smaller seal off the rock. Perhaps this was because space
was not limited and it was more costly to engage in conflict than to simply find
another area to haul out. Another possible reason for limited aggressive
behavior involves the social organization of the population. Perhaps the
population Sullivan observed had a very high turnover rate and thus the social
hierarchy had to be reestablished daily. The seals of this study may have been
part of a more stable population where the social organization is more or less
permanently established. An observation which gives some weight to this
argument is that at site 14 where only large adult males were seen hauled out, not
once did another age class even attempt haul out at this site even though the
physical features were such that younger age classes should be able to haul out
there. Site 14 was the most protected site and there was always space available
for more seals to haul out. But, this area may be known within the population as
being only for adult males and no other seals want to challenge that fact.
Although this study did not attempt to define the social structure of the
population, this does not mean that some form of social organization fails to exist,
