For each seal that hauled out, its age class, sex, time of haul out, interaction
with other seals, and duration of haul out were recorded. Furthermore, its initial
location and movements were recorded on the appropriate map. Four age classes
were noted: adult (4+ years), subadult (2-4 years), juvenile (1-2 years), and pup
(El year). Age class was primarily based on size using age-size data compiled by
Fisher (1952) and Bishop (1968) (see Fig. 1), although pelt characteristics were
used to distinguish some pups and juveniles. Seals were measured by comparing
them to known-length areas on the rocks. Sex was indicated by the presence or
absence of a penile opening and penile line, or the presence of teats visible on
lactating females. However, most hauled out seals were not sexed because they
did not position themselves on the rocks with their ventral side towards shore and
sex-determination was almost impossible once the pelt dried.
Tidal height, wave intensity, and disturbance were recorded each day
Tidal height was measured in feet and was given by the tide schedule for
Monterey Bay. The maximum and minimum tidal heights during which
observations were made were +4.1 feet and +0.2 feet. Seals were not present in
the study area at a tidal height less than -O.5 feet because the channels within the
study area were too shallow for the seals to swim in them. Wave intensity was
measured daily at each of the 21 hauling grounds. Multiple recordings were
made throughout the observation period at one hour intervals. It was noted that
wave impact remained constant throughout the study period until the tide level
dropped below +2 feet. Once the tide height dropped below +2 feet, the wave
intensity factor would decrease by one category. Wave intensity never changed
by more than one category during any obervation period. There were five levels
of wave intensity based on the percent of the hauling ground covered by wave
splash: (1) hauling ground unaffected by wave splash; (2) 0-25% covered; (3) 25-
50% covered; (4) 50-75% covered; and (5) 75-100% covered. Because the entire
