nor does it imply that social organization did not in some way influence the
observed age-structured haul out.
Since the same age distributions were observed in this study as Sullivan's
study, even in the absence of aggressive behavior, this suggests that there is a
factor other than aggression which influences the age-structured patterns.
Sullivan did not investigate other possibilities for the patterns he observed. This
study explored the possibility that the physical features of the hauling grounds
influenced the age distribution. Size of hauling ground, degree of incline, and
percent algal cover were observed to have different relations with the haul out
success of different age classes. Degree incline and percent algal cover had no
significant effect on adult haul out. Two possible explanations for this are that 1)
adult bodies are long enough to span over the slippery sections of algae, and/or 2
adults possess better coordinated haul out manuevers such that a steep incline does
not pose a problem. However, smaller age classes do not possess these assets and
thus are hindered by a steep incline and high percentage of algal cover.
There is no reason to assume that the physical features examined in this
study are the only features which may influence haul out behavior. Those
features chosen for any study will be highly dependent on the type of substrate
being used for haul out. For example, distance from an escape channel was not
shown to have an impact on haul out for any age class in this study. However,
other investigators which have studied seal haul out behavior on sandbars and
mudflats have repeatedly noted a preference by all age classes for area in close
proximity to an escape channel. Scheffer and Slipp (1944) studied seals on
mudflats in Washington State and observed that those seals which hauled out did
not allow themselves to be farther than 5 feet from the water's edge and would
abandon a site if the escape channel depth was below 1.5 feet. Davis and Renouf
(1987) studied seals on sandbars at Miquelon and also observed that the seals
