hauling ground was not exposed at higher tide heights, these percentages were
based on the area of the hauling ground exposed between wave sets. Only the
available haul out area was considered, meaning that the portion of the hauling
grounds which was underwater due to the tide was ignored. A "disturbance" was
said to have occurred if any seal returned to the water via quick ungulations of its
body which have been described by Sullivan (1982) as escape behavior. Time
and type of disturbance were recorded as well as the seals' subsequent reaction to
the disturbance.
Physical characteristics of the rocks which were measured included 1)
distance to escape channel; 2) % total algal cover; 3) % algal cover by
Mastocarpus papillatus (narrow blade version), Mastocarpus papillatus (broad
blade version), Endocladia muricata, and Iridaea flaccida; 4) size of hauling
ground; and 5) degree of incline to reach hauling ground. Distance to an escape
channel was measured in meters and given by the mean observed distance
between a seal and the water's edge. Total and individual algal cover was
assessed by using a 50-cm square grid subdivided into 5-cm squares. Relative
percentages were recorded for each 50-cm square section within a hauling
ground and the mean taken for the overall percent-cover. Due to the irregular
shape of most hauling grounds, the size of the hauling ground was based on the
number of large adult males which could be accommodated within the area. This
number is not the maximum number of adult seals ever observed in the area. It
is important to note that this value does not indicate the total number of
individuals able to haul out in a given area because the area occupied by one large
adult equals that of two subadults or three juveniles based on area comparisons in
hauling grounds where all age classes hauled out together. Site 14 was the
reference area used for these area calculations because the number of adult males
within the site and the amount of space they occupied could be measured and then
