marks were made by the sharp barnacles on the rocks when the seal moved
around.
Substrate physical features and age class haul out: Adults were able to
haul out at almost all hauling grounds unless the rocks were too small to
accommodate their larger size. When a juvenile was observed at a higher
position in the hauling ground than an adult, the juvenile was always resting on a
rock too small for an adult. Adults were seen hauled out twice at sites 2 and 3,
once at sites 13 and 21, and never at sites 7, 17, and 19. Table 2 indicates that,
except for site 2, the space available at these sites ranged from
0.375 m2 to 1.8 m2. Although site 2 had large enough rocks, it was only exposed
at a tidal height of +1.8 feet and less. Juveniles and subadults often arrived at this
site before any adults, but on the two occasions that adults were observed at site 2
they were the first to arrive. No relation was observed between degree of
incline, percent algal cover, or distance to escape channel and an adult's
ability/preference to haul out at a particular site.
Degree of incline and the percent algal cover did limit subadult and
juvenile haul out. If the total algal cover was greater than 50%, then either 1) the
incline had to be less than 20' or 2) % Mastocarpus (narrow blade) cover was less
that 20% or 3) % Iridaea cover was less than 10% (see Table 3). Iridaea and
Mastocarpus (narrow blade) were the most slippery of the four types of algae
surveyed with Iridaea being the most slippery of all. On several days, both
subadults and juveniles were seen attempting to haul out on rocks which had an
algal cover of 80% or greater and an incline of 50' or greater. However, each of
these attempts was unsuccessful because the seals were slipping down on the algae
faster than they could climb up it. Although sites 3, 7, and 17 met the above
conditions for haul out, subadults were only observed at these sites twice, once,
and once respectively. Most often, juveniles arrived at these areas first and
