Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 18
THE VELIGER
show faster random motion. Detached tube feet held near
receptive properties on physical contact. Their reactions
the surface of the side of the foot do not cause a reaction.
to tube feet are specific, although not as marked as those
The head tentacles appear to be primarily tactile re
of the head tentacles.
ceptors. Normal responses are elicited after their extir-
The epipodial structures also appear to function as
stimulus localizers. Epipodialectomized animals, when
pation (Figures 1 to 3). But chemoreception on physica
contact is assuredly another of the tentacles’ properties.
stimulated on the side of the foot by tube feet, do not
for responses of the tentacles to detached tube feet are
veer away from the tube feet in as directed a manner
definite and specific.
as control animals. They usually turn at an angle of
The main function of the head tentacles is apparently
45° or less to the opposite side from which they were
to help localize the source of stimulation, so that in this
stimulated
case the snail might be better able to steer away from the
The osphradium, a bipectinate structure located at the
base of the mantle and in close association with the
starfish. When stimulated by detached tube feet, animals
ctenidium, is in this herbivorous species quite small and
difficult to remove. Because of the severity of the operation
Controls
for removal of the osphradium, a group of special control
6 min. (20 snails)
animals was prepared. These control animals were sub¬
Bottom of foot scraped
jected to all steps in the operation, including cracking
6 min. (10 snails)
of the shell, except that their osphradia were left intact.
Two groups of test animals, those partially osphradiec
Side of foot scraped
tomized and without part of their shell and a group that
6 min. (10 snails)
was totally osphradiectomized and with shell pieces
fitted back together, were used. In the partially osphra-
No epipodial fringe
6 min. (20 snails)
diectomized animals the osphradial nerve was cut distal
to the left parietal ganglion, and that portion of the
No epipodial structures
osphradium growing along the edge of the ctenidium on
6 min. (20 snails)
No head tentacles
Controls
6 min. (20 snails)
(20 snails)
Controls for partial
No epipodial structures
osphradiectomy - 8 min. (6 snails)
20 snails)

Partial osphradiectomy
Side of foot scraped
8 min. (7 snails)
(20 snails)
Controls for total
No head tentacles
osphradiectomy  12 min. (5 snails)
(20 snails)
Total osphradiectomy
Controls for partial
2 min. (5 snails)
osphradiectomy
(1l snails)
25 50 75 100%
Partial osphradiectomy
Figure 1:
(Il snails)
Escape of Tegula funebralis from Pisaster ochraceus
Controls for total
Abcissae represent percent of snails out of water.
osphradiectomy
5 snais)
deprived of tentacles did not give responses oriented as
Total osphradiectomy
much away from the tube foot as the control animals
did, i. e., the operated animals usually turned less than
(5 snails)
90°, as opposed to the controls.
25
50 75 100%
Likewise, the chief function of the epipodial structures
seems to be that of tactile receptors. Their extirpatior
Figure 2: Response of Tegula funebralis to tube feet of
makes little difference in Tegula funebralis’s reactions to
Pisaster ochraceus. In each group the top line represents
tube feet or tube feet extract (Figures 1 to 3). Also, like
strong response, the middle line moderate response, and
the head tentacles, epipodial structures do have chemo¬
the bottom line slight response (see text),
