Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 20
THE VELIGER
half of the ctenidium do not noticeably alter chemore¬
result in appreciable change of chemoreceptive abilities
ception. The osphradium functions as an olfactory organ
of T. funebralis.
and is capable of detecting the presence of an extract
containing 2.6 X 10“ parts by wet weight of tube feet
LITERATURE CITED
from Pisaster ochraceus. The osphradium, when stimu¬
FEDER, H.
lated, seems to cause the animals to be more sensitive
to stimulations of the head tentacles and epipodial struc-
1956. Natural history of Pisaster ochraceus. Doctoral diss.,
Stanford Univ.
tures. Removal of part of the osphradium does not
Identification and Location of Carbohydrases in the
Intestinal Tract of Tegula funebralis
(Mollusca : Gastropoda)
WARREN R. BERRIE
AND
MITCHEL W. DEVEREAUX
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(6 Tables)
parts: buccal cavity, salivary glands, esophagus, stomach
SINCE Tegula funebralis (A. ADAMS, 1854) is an herbi¬
and digestive gland (since it was impossible to separate
vorous marine animal, it is quite evident that it must
have an efficient and well developed carbohydrate diges-
the stomach from the digestive gland), digestive gland
tive mechanism. Although this subject has been explored
(portions freed from the stomach), spiral caecum, thin
hindgut, and thick hindgut.
to some degree already (GALLI, 1956), there still seemed
The purpose of the first experiment was to determine
much to be investigated. We limited our efforts to the
the site of enzyme production. The gut segments were
study of five carbohydrates present in the environment
excised from snails fresh from the field. These tissues
of the animal: starch, laminarin, alginate, fucoidin, and
were refrigerated so as to retard any loss of enzyme
cellobiose. Using these materials we hoped to localize the
activity due to denaturation or autolysis. Pools of tissue
points of enzyme production within the alimentary canal
from five animals were washed, weighed, and extracted
and sites of carbohydrate digestion. The extent to which
in a tissue grinder equipped with a Teflon pestle (Van
intracellular and extracellular digestion is involved in the
Waters and Rogers Inc., Catalogue no. 48652) with either
foregut and hindgut was also studied.
a citrate-phosphate buffer, pH 5.8, or a phosphate buffer,
The substrates were: starch (Baker and Adamson,
pH 7.4. These buffers were chosen since they approximate
reagent grade), alginate (Kelco Co., commercial grade)
the extremes of hydrogen ion concentration occurring in
cellobiose (Pfanstiehl Chemical Co., C. P grade). Lamin¬
the digestive tract. Enzyme activity was determined by
arin and fucoidin were isolated from Fucus by the
method of BLACK, DEWAR, & WOODWARD (1951 - 1952).
incubating an appropriate aliquot of tissue extract with
one of the substrates and assaying for reducing sugar by
The alimentary canal was divided into eight anatomical
