Vol. 6; Supplement
Tube foot
extrac
Controls
5 min. (8 snails)
No head tentacles
5 min. (8 snails)
Controls
5 min. (8 snails)
No epipodial
structures - Smin. (8 snails)
Controls
10 min. (4 snails)
Partial
osphradiectomy Omin. (6 snais)
Controls
5 min. (5 snails)
Total
osphradiectomy - 15 min. (5 snails)
2550
100%
Figure 3: Detection of Pisaster ochraceus extract by
Tegula funcbralis. (Extract contained 1.04 X 10“ parts
by wet weight of tube fect.) Abscissae represent percent
of snails out of the extract.
the ventral side was removed. The mass of the osphradium,
located under the ganglion, could not be reached by
this technique, which resulted in partially osphradiec¬
tomized animals. Total osphradiectomy involved removal
of the remaining osphradial mass.
There is no appreciable difference in the bchavior of
the partially osphradiectomized animals and their con¬
trols (Figures 1 to 3). Obviously, most of the osphradium,
or at least the yellow mass in close connection with the
parictal ganglion, must be removed before olfactory
properties are eliminated.
Ösphradiectomized animals show no more movement
of the tentacles or general excitement in the presence
of tube foot extract or in a bucket with a starfish than
they do in ordinary sea water. These animals do withdraw
their head tentacles slightly from detached tube feet, but
the reactions are not at all as strong as those given by
any of the other test animals. Äfter 15 minutes of exposure
to starfish one osphradiectomized animal crawled out of
the water, but it returned 30 seconds later.
Those sites found to be chemoreceptive in a gustatory
sense, that is requiring physical contact, are the sides of
the foot, the head tentacles, and the epipodial structures.
Page 19
THE VELIGER
The osphradium functions as an olfactory sense organ,
being chemoreceptive without physical contact.
The chemorcceptive sitcs of Tegula funebralis are ex¬
tremely sensitive. While not indicated by figures a straight-
line correspondence between the concentration of Pisaster
ochraceus tube foot extract (expressed logarithmically
and the probability of eliciting an escape response in T
funebralis could be demonstrated. The 50% threshold
effect lies about midway between the 1/64 and the 1/32
dilutions of an extract 33% by wet weight of tube feet,
1 ml of which is added to 200 cc sea water; i. e., T.
funcbralis will escape 50% of the time within 5 minutes
from a solution that is 2.6 to 5.2 X 10“ parts by wet
weight of tube fect. Decreasing the dilution results in
gradually increasing activity by the test animals.
The movement resulting from the presence of the
starfish or of its secretion appears to be random. Tegula
funcbralis have been observed to run into a starfish up
to four times before finally climbing out of the bucket.
The snail appears to test the concentration of starfish
secretion and orients and moves randomly. It eventually
reaches an area of lower concentration of the chemical
stimulus. However, in the immediate proximity of a
starfish contained in a bucket in a small volume of water
(about 4½ liters) therc is not likely to be much of a
concentration gradient, and the only available arca of
lower concentration is out of water.
Tegula funebralis can and do often adapt themselves to
the presence of Pisaster ochraceus (see FEDER, 1956).
This adaptation is not duc to breakdown of the tube foot
substance, but rather fatigue of the chemoreceptive sites.
Snails added to a pan from which they were prevented
from escaping by a wire screen and in which a starfish
has immediately beforchand resided show marked activity
for about 15 minutes, after which time they become
quicscent. New T funcbralis then added also show in-
creased activity for about 15 minutes, while the "fatigue
of the original snails is still manifested. Neither the sub¬
sequent reintroduction of the starfish nor the removal
of the wire screen caused any of the twenty "fatigued
animals to move out of the bucket within 15 minutes.
SUMMARY
Tegula funcbralis has both gustatory and olfactory sense
sites. The side of the foot, the head tentacles, and the
cpipodial structures serve as contact chemoreceptive sites.
Extirpation or scraping of these structures does not alter
the overall sensitivity to Pisaster ochraceus. Scraping the
bottom of the foot, cutting of the border between the
side and the bottom of the foot, removal of the epipodial
fringe (on the left side of the foot), removal of up to
