Vol. 6; Supplement
Page 17
THE VELIGER
Chemoreception by Tegula funebralis
(Mollusca : Gastropoda)
WILLIAM ROMNEY BURKE
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University,
Pacific Grove, California
(3 Text figures)
OBSERVATIONS IN THE FIELD and in the laboratory
to one stimulation by the detached tube foot; moderate
showed that escape responses are elicited in Tegula fune¬
— noticeable avoidance after being stimulated once - but
bralis (A. ADAMS, 1854) by the immediate presence of
without the rapidity or the sharpness in turning of a
starfish. Since contact with the starfish is not essential
strong response; slight = several stimulations necessary
to effect the response, I proposed to determine the location
to elicit a reaction as noticeable as a moderate response).
of possible chemoreceptive sites.
3) A homogenate of starfish tube feet (4 g wet weight
of tube feet to 8 cc of sea water) was made. The super-
MATERIALS AND METHODS
natant resulting after centrifugation was diluted to several
Species used in the tests were Tegula funebralis and
different concentrations. For tests 1 ml supernatant was
Pisaster ochraceus (BRANDT, 1835). All test animals were
added to 200 cc sea water in a small dish. The number
taken from the intertidal region at China Point. Hopkins
of snails out of the water after a specified time was
Marine Station, Pacific Grove, California.
scored. Since the potency of individual extracts of tube
The Tegula funebralis were anesthetized in an isotonic
fect varied, a new control group was required for each
solution of Mg Clz. Twenty animals were kept as controls
preparation.
following anesthesia; from some of the remaining animals
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
various structures were removed (head tentacles, epi¬
podial structures, epipodial fringe, osphradium) and
The results are shown in the form of bar graphs in Figures
others had either the bottom or the side of the foot
1 to 3.
scraped. The operated animals were then observed in
The results in Figure 1 demonstrate that scraping of
order to determine any deviation from the behavior of
much of the epithelial layer of the side or bottom of the
the control snails.
foot does not impair sensitivity to chemical stimulation
Pisaster ochraceus was selected from among the various
by starfish secretions. This same modification of the snail
species of starfish because of its abundance and its highly
does not remove its ability to be stimulated by contact
effective stimulation of Tegula funebralis (YARNALL,
with tube fect as is indicated in Figure 2. Also, while
1964).
it is not indicated in the figures, excising of the border
Three types of tests were performed.
of the sides and bottom of the foot does not cause
1) Snails were arranged around the sides in the bottom
noticeable change in the chemoreceptive ability of the
of a plastic bucket to which a Pisaster ochraceus was
snail.
then added. The sea water level was maintained at 6 cm
Normal snails exhibit escape responses when any side
(approximately 4½ liters). The number of snails out of
of the foot is stimulated by a detached tube foot. These
the water after a specified time was scored.
responses are specific only for detached tube feet; human
2) Detached starfish tube feet were touched against
hands, bare probes, and probes with detached Tegula
Tegula funebralis which had been placed on a water
funebralis feet will not elicit any escape response.
table over which ran a continuous supply of sea water.
The necessity for touch as a stimulus for these sites
Responses observed were those described by FEDER
may be demonstrated by placing the left or right side
(1956). They were classified as strong, moderate, and
of a snail without epipodial structures against a starfish
slight (strong = immediate and marked escape reaction
arm. Such a modified snail will become excited and
