environment makes tuna difficult to follow and observe for long periods of time. Even less is
known about the effects of captivity; for example, how diet changes in captivity as compared to
the wild. Open ocean fish by nature, it is believed that tuna spend much time in low productivity
environments. As a consequence they may go without food for long periods of time and then
gorge when they come to an oasis of food in the ocean or when they reach higher productivity
areas near shore (Sund et al. 1981). Olson and Boggs (1986) found that Yellowfin tuna fed to
satiation ate more than most other species of fish. They suggested that this could be because of
their feast and famine life style; when tunas swim into a feeding area they may need to take full
advantage of the food source as fast as possible before they move on to the sparse habitat of the
Pacific Ocean basin. No data could be found on the periodicity of this fasting and gorging lifestyle
in the wild. Is this habit of feeding constant year round or does it only coincide with long
migrations? This problem of feeding to satiation is not encountered by the tuna in captivity. No
one knows the effect, if any that this has. Much more research on the comparison of wild and
captive tuna must be done.
Studying tuna in captivity allows research to be conducted that is not feasible in the field. For
example, observing the amount and type of food individuals ate at every feeding provided data on
the feeding habits of yellowfin tuna for a longer period of time than would be possible in a field
experiment. This data can be used, along with measurements of activity to develop a mass specific
energy budget for tuna. Through individual observation it is possible to monitor the exact amount
of food that a tuna eats. By converting the total amount eaten per day into measurements of
calories and fat, models can be made that determine how a change in diet will affect the energy
intake of yellowfin tuna (Appendices 1,2). If the optimum range of fat content and total caloric
intake is known, these models can be used to determine the best feeding strategy. Knowledge of
captive tuna food requirements not only adds to knowledge about tuna; it also will enable
researchers to keep tuna healthy and alive in captivity for future study.
