FOOD REQUIREMENTS AND LIPID ACCUMULATION IN CAPTIVE
YELLOWFIN TUNA : Thunnus albacares
Bianca Perla May, 1995
INTRODUCTION
The Tuna Research and Conservation Center (TRCC) at Hopkins Marine Station in Monterey
California houses one of the few captive yellowfin tuna populations in the world. The tuna are
separated by size and age into three tanks. Tank 1 (T1), the largest tank, is 89,000 gallons and
contains 2-3 year old yellowfin tuna that have been in captivity for 1.7 years. Tanks two and three
(T2, T3) are both 29,000 gallons and hold yellowfin tuna from 1-2 years of age that have been in
captivity 8 months.
Recently, TRCC tuna have shown signs of high lipid levels. Autopsies on mortalities during
the months of December through March revealed evidence for excess lipid deposits around the
heart and gills and in the muscles of TRCC tuna (Block Lab pers. comm., pers. obs.). Four of
these mortalities were sudden deaths suggestive of cardiac arrest. All deaths from heart attacks
occurred in TI which contains the fish who have been in captivity the longest. Cardiac arrest is
commonly caused by high lipid levels.
Three hypotheses for the cause of these high lipid levels have come to the forefront. One is
cool temperature. Water temperatures in all tanks range from 19.5-21 degrees Celsius. Wild
vellowfin tuna are usually found in waters around 25 degrees Celsius (Sund et al., 1981). Low
temperature slows down metabolism and hence has the capacity to increase fat storage. Secondly,
TRCC tuna may have a lower activity level than wild yellowfin tuna. Lack of activity decreases the
amount of energy metabolized and may lead to increased lipid storage. This study concentrates on
the third possible contributor to high fat levels- diet. During February and March TRCC fish acted
sluggish and over-satiated at feedings. Diet is the source of all energy used for metabolic
processes. Presumably by controlling input of fat through the diet one can control the amount of
lipid available to store in the first place.
