MATERIALS AND METHODS
Feeding Observation and Analysis
To study the effects of a reduced diet on the health and behavior of the fish, feedings were cut
from twice a day everyday to once a day every other day. Composition of the diet stayed the same-
squid, sardines, anchovies. However, anchovies were cut out in May. Samples of squid,
sardines, and anchovies were weighed three times throughout the months of April and May and
separated into large and small categories to reduce standard deviation around the mean weight.
Four specimens from each large and small category of food items (sardines, squid and anchovies)
were sent to Michelson laboratories for bomb calorimetery tests which gave caloric content, percent
fat, percent protein and percent carbohydrate (see Table 1).
Before each feeding food was seperated by type and by size category. During each feeding
individual fish were watched and the quantity and type of food that they ate was recorded.
Morphological factors (like distinctive shapes of the fins) were used for identification. The tuna
Tip (Tank 1), RN (Tank 2), and Notch (Tank 3) were followed in a previous study from December
1994-March 1995 (Marcinek, unpublished). I continued following these fish so I could compare
the old diet with the new reduced diet.
Behavior and level of activity during each feeding was noted for the tank and for the individuals
followed. Lunging for the food, competing with other fish for food and anticipatory behavior
before feeding were noted when they occurred.
Data for December 1994-March 1995 (Marcinek-unpublished) and data collected from the new
diet (April 21-June 2 1995) were used to calculate total caloric content, percent fat and fat calories
eaten per day. Caloric content and fat content of foods, determined by the bomb calorimetery tests,
were used in calculations. Mean weights found at the beginning of the study were used as well
(Table 2). The Monterey Bay Aquarium provided data on the amount of food fed to each tank as a
whole from the months of December through May (Chuck Farwell, pers. comm.). This data was
analyzed to calculate an expected amount of calories per fish per day. Expected values were
