Food requirements, food preferences and total energy budget have been studied for many
species of wild tunas (Graham and Laurs 1982, Blackburn 1968, Olson and Boggs 1986). King
and Ikehara (1956) studied the food preferences of wild yellowfin tuna in the Pacific and
concluded that squid and fish were the major components of the diet while crustaceans and
molluscs were secondary. Olson and Boggs (1986) concurred that fish were the primary source of
food for yellowfin where as cephalopods were secondary. Estimates of daily food requirements
of wild tunas have been derived from analysis of stomach contents, and models estimating
metabolic rate. These estimates range widely from as low as 3% to as high as 30% of body weight
per day (Sund et al. 1981). There is little consensus of optimum dietary requirements of wild
tunas and even less is known about how these food requirements change in captivity.
Research conducted on other species of captive fish, like salmon (Shearer 1993), and the
Caribbean Jack (Walters et al. 1995) indicate that fish in captivity, fed commercial pelleted diets,
contained higher levels of whole body lipid than their wild equivalents. Davies (1989) found that
increasing dietary lipid in Rainbow trout increased whole body lipid stores. Olson and Boggs
(1986) showed that prey higher in fat was evacuated from wild yellowfin tuna stomachs at a much
slower rate than prey containing less fat. Lipid is a high energy food component-containing 9.4
dietary calories per gram as opposed to carbohydrates and protein which contain approximately 4
calories for 1 g (Schmidt-Nielson 1990). Accordingly, it takes longer to metabolize fat than other
food components such as carbohydrates and protein.
A diet high in lipid could be contributing to the high lipid levels and sluggish behavior of the
TRCC tuna. By monitoring how much and what types of food TRCC captive tuna eat, total
calories consumed and fat calories consumed can be calculated. Furthermore, histological
techniques can be used to compare fat levels of Kewalo basin captive tuna (fed a 100% squid diet
and kept at water temperatures of 25 degrees Celsius) and TRCC tuna (fed a diet of squid,
anchovies, and sardines and kept at 19.5-21 degrees Celsius) to see how diet affects fat levels.
