with out having to feed high energy, fatty foods that are more easily stored as lipid in the tissues.
Although the decrease in fat calories between April and May was only statistically significant for
12 the fact that it was present in all tanks suggests that it is possible to maintain a steady caloric
intake while decreasing fat. Feeding a diet of 100 percent squid may reduce fat calories while
maintaining a reasonable total caloric intake.
Because expected and observed values were determined to be similar in TI for all months, data
from one fish in TI can be extrapolated to the whole tank. Two exceptions to this could be the
smallest yellowfin in the tank and one skipjack tuna. Data are currently being taken on the smallest
yellowfin-in TI, to discover if observations on Tip can be applied. T2 and T3 expected and
observed values were less consistent. The lack of consistency with expected values could have to
do with age, or size. Perhaps younger yellowfin tuna do not eat as consistently as older yellowfin.
Because the fish are younger, there is a greater size range in T2 and T3. The bigger fish may take
more than their share. A recent mortality in T3 (May 21) supports this assumption. The fish that
died was fairly large compared to the others in the tank and stomach contents from its last feeding
revealed that the tuna had eaten two more sardines than the expected value. This points to the need
to increase the number of individual fish followed at each feeding- especially for T2 and T3.
Observations on another set of fish has already been started but their data were not included
because they were not followed for long enough to make accurate comparisons.
This study succeeded in determining that caloric levels and fat levels were too high on the old
diet. However, this was a qualitative analysis of caloric intake and fat content. Is the new diet too
much of a decrease or not enough? Continuing observations on the new diet and testing tissues of
future mortalities will reveal how efficient the diet change has been on reducing lipid levels. For
even more accuracy, the data from this study can be used, along with growth curves, to develop a
mass specific measurement for what tuna eat. By coupling this mass specific food measurement
with data on total energy expenditure an overall energy budget for tuna can be developed. This
overall energy budget can be used to find the optimum, maximum, and minimum amount of
