calories and fat that the TRCC tuna diet should contain.
Histology
Red muscle in tunas is used for aerobic activity whereas white muscle is used for powering
sprinting behaviors. White muscle usually contains less fat than red muscle tissue, however,
staining revealed that TRCC tuna have high levels of lipid in their white muscle indicating
accumulation. One possible explanation is that TRCC captive tuna are not using their white muscle
as much. Possibly the increased sprinting and leaping behavior seen recently during feedings
could exercise the white muscle more and lead to a decrease in lipid storage.
Results showed that lipid content in TRCC tuna tissue was higher, in both red and white
muscle, than captive tuna fed lower fat diets. Are there any other factors contributing to this
difference? The effect of temperature should be studied as another factor in lipid accumulation. At
lower temperatures metabolic processes decrease and lipid is burn more slowly (Shearer, Karl D.
1993). Kewalo basin tuna were kept at 25 degrees C where as TRCC tuna are kept at 19.5-21
degrees C. This could be another reason besides diet that TRCC tuna have higher fat levels than
Kewalo basin tuna.
Quantitative analysis of intra-cellular stains can improve accuracy in comparing fat content of
muscle tissues. By over-lying a grid system on the prints of stained tissue, individual lipid
droplets can be counted and a percentage of fat accumulation in the tissue can be determined.
Counting the actual lipid droplets would provide a more accurate basis for comparison of tissues
than the qualitative estimation performed in this study. Oil Red O will be a valuable stain to use to
determine the percentage of intracellular lipid, and to compare wild and captive tuna lipid levels but
problems of over-staining must be overcome before Oil Red O can be used with confidence.
There is little information of great accuracy available on food requirements, on metabolic rate
and on many other physiological and behavioral aspects of yellowfin tuna because the open ocean
