DISCUSSION
My results are clearly limited in their usefulness because of the small number
of colonies I collected from the field and because of the difficulties I experienced in
refining the arbitrarily-primed PCR techniques. Nevertheless, I was able to show
that genetic diversity could be detected among genomic DNA samples from
Botryllus schlosseri, and to come to some preliminary conclusions about the most
effective techniques for identifying diagnostic DNA markers for population genetics
studies, using arbitrarily primed PCR. The data from my tests of fusibility in
Botryllus oozooids indicates a negative correlation between the distance between
two colonies and their degree of relatedness. This implies that limited larval disper¬
sal and philopatry do indeed lead to grouping of related colonies and to inbreeding.
In my experiments with the arbitrary primers, I found that the conditions
recommended by Williams et al. (1990a) gave the best results, except that the dNTT
concentration of 100uM which they used gave very poor results. Instead, I followed
Welsh and McClelland (1990) in using 200uM dNTPs. I also found that 30 cycles of
amplification gave more specific amplification and hence clearer banding patterns
than 45 cycles. Furthermore, I found that decreasing the concentration of DNA
and/or Taq polymerase, which Williams et al. (1990) recommend for resolving dis¬
crete amplification products with primers which give a smear under normal condi-
tions, eliminated some bands and did not materially improve the specificity of am¬
plification. I obtained an average of 2.5 products per primer, as opposed to an aver¬
age of 4.3 products per primer reported by Martin et al. (1991), and found that only
20% of the primers I screened gave any amplification, as opposed to the 60%-90%
success rate reported by Operon. Finally, I found the arbitrarily-primed PCR tech-
nique to be very difficult to use for repeated tests and, under my conditions, quite
unpredictable. It is hard to say what elements of my protocol were responsible for
these problems; however, it is possible that the DNA samples I isolated were not
