fication, and therefore brighter bands, but seemed to give more non-specific amplifi¬
cation. In this experiment, DNA concentration was also varied; banding patterns,
however, became more indistinct, and many bands disappeared entirely, as DNA
concentration was reduced.
Unfortunately, despite these encouraging preliminary results, the arbitrarily-
primed PCR technique proved, under my conditions, to be unreliable, and it was
very difficult to get reproducible results. I was unable to complete my experiments
designed to refine the procedure to produce clear, reproducible banding patterns be¬
cause the primers simply ceased to amplify my DNA samples. Various experiments
were performed to determine which, if any, of my reagents was responsible for the
problem; test PCRs showed no difference between different stocks of dNTPs,
primers, DNA and Taq polymerase (data not shown). Finally, a series of test reac¬
tions was performed using Ras 2 and Ras 3 primers designed to amplify a specific 800
base-pair product from Botryllus. Figure 4 shows that the DNAS I isolated and an¬
other DNA sample obtained from elsewhere all gave the expected product with the
Ras 2 and Ras 3 primers. (Ras 2 and Ras 3 primers and DNA sample W32 were ob¬
tained from Simona Bartl.)
Histocompatibility Assays
Tables 1 and 2 show raw data from pairs of oozooids scored for fusion or rejec¬
tion. There was considerable variation in the frequency of successful transfer from
one group of oozooids to another. Also, some of the data comes from oozooid pairs
whose progress was followed for as long as 11 days, while other pairs were followed
only for 9 days. Figure 6 shows frequencies of fusion and non-fusion for the
oozooid pairs set up for each pair of parents. I used the Rx C test of independence to
calculate G-values (Sokal and Rohlf 1981a, b) for the two groups of offspring, those
from neighboring parents and those from non-neighbors. The frequencies for the
rates of fusion between offspring of near neighbors varied significantly between dif-
