gating in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium would give a frequency of fusion of 3.9%.
(See Appendix)
Clearly, my data reflects not only philopatric dispersal but also a baseline con¬
dition of significant inbreeding or very low polymorphism at the fusibility locus as
compared to other Botryllus populations studied. A possible explanation for this
phenomenon is the fact that Botryllus colonies of a limited range of known histo¬
compatibility types are put out on slides in the marina as part of ongoing work with
the phenomenon of self/non-self recognition. None of my samples were collected
from the area where these introductions are made, but nevertheless this interfer-
ence may have skewed allele frequencies throughout the Marina over time.
More work needs to be done on the ecology and population genetics of
Botryllus before its complex life cycle will be well-understood. In particular, further
studies of the frequency of chimerism in the wild, and of the effects of different wa¬
ter-flow regimes on larval dispersal, would shed light on the issues I have raised.
The use of DNA markers, whether through arbitrarily-primed PCR or otherwise,
could help to elucidate these problems. Since arbitrarily-primed PCR detects mark-
ers which are transmitted as dominants, chimeric colonies might well be distin¬
guishable because they would give greater than the normal number of amplification
products. If the technique was used extensively, it might be possible to use it to con¬
struct family trees of individuals within a population and therefore discover its pre¬
cise genetic structure. Another possibility, more closely related to the issue of histo¬
compatibility genes in Botryllus, is that arbitrarily-primed PCR might be used to find
genetic markers closely linked to fusibility genes in already-existing laboratory stocks
of Botryllus. Such markers could then be used as a starting point for sequencing ef-
forts aimed at isolating the genes responsible for self/non-self discrimination. Such
work is already under way, using more conventional avenues of approach, but this
technique might prove a useful alternative.
