solitary ascidians growing under the floating docks, as well as available hard sur¬
faces. There are two genetically-determined color morphs, orange and blue.
Botryllus colonies originate from sexually-produced larvae, which spend a
brief period-on the order of a few minutes-swimming freely before settling on a
hard surface and metamorphosing into oozooids. The oozooid in turn grows, then
produces asexual buds which take over from the original oozooid, and produce fur-
ther buds, so that eventually the colony takes on its mature form. The life span of a
colony is approximately four months, although some colonies overwinter and may
therefore live as long as ten months.
The mature Botryllus colony consists of as many as five hundred or more ge¬
netically identical zooids, each a self-contained unit with respect to feeding and re-
production, arranged in systems of 8-20 zooids sharing a common excurrent siphon.
Each zooid is hermaphroditic, containing both testes and ovaries, and has its own
apparatus for filter-feeding, a gut and excretory system, but only under unusual con¬
ditions do colonies produce physically separate ramets by asexual growth.
Furthermore, since all zooids in a colony reach sexual maturity at the same time,
and fertile eggs are produced a few days before sperm are released, selfing is thought
to be rare in the wild.
The colony as a whole is connected both by a continuous tunic and by a com¬
mon blood system. The blood carries nutrients, cells responsible for pigmentation
and factors which control histocompatibility; it may also carry primordial germ cells.
The vascular system includes blind sacs known as ampullae, which are present
around the edges of the colony. Botryllus colonies which come into contact at their
growing edges are capable of fusing: that is, when their ampullae touch, the vascular
systems of the two colonies can merge, and with time the two colonies can become
morphologically indistinguishable due to the movement of pigment cells between
the two colonies. The product of such a fusion is termed a chimera.
