marine invertebrates belonging to very diverse phyla. Such life histories pose spe¬
cial problems in population structure and dynamics, since one must consider the
fates of reproductive adults, asexual propagules, gametes, and larvae.
Planktonic larvae produced by some sessile marine invertebrates are capable
of dispersal over long distances, and may contribute to gene flow between popula¬
tions separated by considerable physical barriers. In other organisms, particularly
many ascidian species, larvae travel only short distances-a few centimeters to a few
meters-before settling. This pattern of philopatric larval dispersal may lead to
pockets of inbreeding within what might appear to be a panmictic population
(Grosberg, 1987).
Another common feature of colonial species among several different phyla of
sessile marine invertebrates is the capability for self/non-self discrimination. The
adaptive value of such mechanisms is not always well-understood. They can,
however, provide a useful tool as well as an interesting problem for the biologist.
Often, tests of histocompatibility may serve, to a first approximation, as tests of relat¬
edness.
Population genetics can also be explored through more conventional av¬
enues, particularly the use of diagnostic enzyme and DNA markers. One technique
that has recently been developed for the quick and facile detection of DNA markers
involves the use of arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifica¬
tion. The polymerase chain reaction itself is a technique of gene amplification,
which employs primers specific to the beginning and end of the sequence of interest,
and repeated cycles of primer annealing, DNA polymerization, and denaturation, to
amplify the target sequence 10°-fold or more. The amplification products can be de¬
tected by gel electrophoresis, and are visible as distinct bands.
In arbitrarily-primed PCR, the sequence of the primers used is known, but ar¬
bitrary with respect to the genome being probed. These primers are generally 10 to 30
nucleotides in length, with a G/C content of between 50 and 80% (Williams et al.,
