Fusion in Botryllus is controlled by a single genetic locus which is highly
polymorphic in all populations studied to date. Fusibility genes segregate according
to Mendelian predictions, and two colonies must share only one allele at the locus
concerned to be able to fuse. If two colonies do not share a fusibility allele, they will
eventually reject each other, and tissue necrosis will result at the site of rejection to
form a permanent physical barrier between the colonies. Because the fusibility gene
is so highly polymorphic-various populations have been estimated to contain 80-
100 different alleles-fusibility and relatedness are highly correlated.
Study Site: The Monterey marina is located on the south side of Monterey
Bay, California; it is enclosed by the breakwater of Monterey Harbor, and by seawalls
and a pier. The various parts of the marina, near the seawall and near the shore,
experience different rates of water flow and wave motion. Tidal currents can be
strong (A. Carwile, 1989). Samples were collected from as many different parts of the
marina as possible to avoid biasing the results in favor of phenomena specific to ar¬
eas of unusually high or low water movement.
Arbitrary Primer Experiments
Primers: Oligodeoxynucleotide primers obtained from Operon Technologies
were used. 15 primers, each 10 nucleotides in length and each containing a restric-
tion-enzyme site, were surveyed.
DNA Isolation: DNA was isolated from colonies of Botryllus schlosseri col¬
lected from the Monterey marina, from Bodega Bay, and from the Santa Cruz ma¬
rina, and from colonies of known relatedness grown in tanks in the laboratory.
Isolation was performed as follows: whole animals were frozen in liquid nitrogen,
then powdered in liquid nitrogen using a mortar and pestle. Powdered samples
were suspended in a buffer of 250 mM Tris-borate pH 8.3, 50 mM EDTA, 2% SDS,
and 10 mM Nacl. 500 ug/ml proteinase K was added to each sample and the sam-
ples were incubated at 55° C for 2 hours. Then each sample was extracted once with
