1990a; Welsh and McClelland, 1990). The underlying idea of the technique is that
within any genome, a certain number of appropriate priming site for any primer of
restricted length will exist, and some of these will be close enough together for the
intervening sequence to be amplified under the right PCR conditions. The amplifi¬
cation products which result will give patterns of banding on a gel which are charac¬
teristic of the DNA sample used (Welsh and McClelland, 1990).
In practice, some primers will fail to produce bands at all in certain species,
while others will produce the same banding patterns in all DNA samples tested,
presumably due to hybridization to highly-conserved regions in the genome. Öther
primers, however, will produce bands which vary between individuals or strains
within a species, and therefore allow very precise identification of strains once pre¬
liminary screening of primers has been carried out. Studies in which primers differ¬
ing only by one base-pair were compared suggest that the technique is able to detect
differences as small as single point mutations between genomes (Williams et al.,
1990a). Since the use of arbitrary primers requires no previous knowledge of the se-
quences either of protein or of DNA, the method would seem to be ideally suited for
rapid screening of DNA samples prepared from many individuals in a population.
The sequences detected by arbitrarily-primed PCR have been shown in breeding ex¬
periments to be transmitted as dominant markers, and can be used in constructing
genetic maps (Williams et al., 1990a; Martin et al. 1991).
In my experiments, I attempted to approach problems of population genetics
posed by limited larval dispersal in the colonial tunicate Botryllus schlosseri. This
common sea squirt possesses a whole suite of adaptations which seem likely to bring
about clustering of related colonies in limited geographic areas. Various studies
have shown that larvae and sperm disperse only short distances, that crosses be¬
tween more distant colonies may be less likely to produce viable offspring than
those between near-neighbor colonies, and that offspring have a tendency to settle
near their parents or siblings (Grosberg 1986, 1987, 1991). Furthermore, Botryllus
