pure enough or had suffered too much "nicking" to be useful for arbitrarily primed
PCR, although they were perfectly sufficient for normal PCR reactions using specific
primers.
The data from my experiments with oozooid fusibility rates are also difficult
to interpret for various reasons. First of all, the significant variance among the rates
of fusion of offspring of pairs of neighbors and of non-neighbors makes it unclear
whether the overall pattern I observed was actually due to the effects of philopatric
dispersal and inbreeding or simply to chance. It would be necessary to repeat these
tests for many more pairs of parents to be certain one way or the other. Secondly,
when 1used the G- test to compare the results of the tests which used the offspring
of one parent and those of a neighbor and a non-neighbor (see tables 1 and 2), the
difference was not significant due to the small size of the sample. However, the
pooled data gave me a large enough sample to determine that I had indeed found a
significant difference in fusibility frequencies.
Beyond problems of variability and small sample size, the oozooid fusion as¬
says present intrinsic difficulties of interpretation. Since it is impossible to deter¬
mine whether the fusibility alleles two oozooids share came from the maternal or
the paternal parent, these data cannot be used to calculate directly the degree of re¬
latedness of the parent colonies I collected. Furthermore, the rate of fusibility over¬
all is much higher than would be expected from a population containing 80-100 alle¬
les in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The overall rate of fusion for all my tests com¬
bined is 32%, and for the offspring of non-neighbor pairs the rate of fusion is 29%.
This result reflects either a) a significantly smaller number of alleles than expected
segregating in the Marina population; or b) a small number of alleles with very high
frequencies, while the rest are present at such low frequencies that they did not con¬
tribute significantly to my data. A population in which 10 alleles were segregating at
equal frequencies would have a total frequency of fusion of 32%. 100 alleles segre¬
