A. Wong Page 3
their opercula, potentially copulating animals resume their
activity much sooner than non-copulating ones.
The activities of a donor may be divided into three
phases: "exploration," probing and positioning, and finally
insemination. In the midst of feeding, a donor barnacle uncoils
its penis and waves it about in an exploratory manner. The
activity does not seem to be aimed at a particular target,
and the barnacle appears to be "searching" its surroundings
without a definite directional stimulus. Extrusion of the
penis may occur several times before feeding is resumed. If
at this point a target is located, probing begins and activity
thereafter appears directed toward the potential receiver.
Other barnacles close to the donor are ignored. Several donors
in a local area often probe toward one particular barnacle.
Thus while exploratory waving is always aimless, probing involves
a definite directional activity of the penis.
Sometimes, after several unsuccessful probing attempts,
the prospective donor will resume feeding, especially if the
receiver is too far away to be reached. If the penis can reach
the receiver, probing becomes more persistent and may continue for
several hours, interrupted only by short periods of feeding.
As the rate of copulatory beating increases, feeding interruptions
occur less frequently.
The pumping activity of the receiver is interrupted
also by short feeding spells during the long period of probing
by the donor. Often the probing penis comes into contact with
the receiver's extended cirri, and at first the former may
be startled into withdrawal. On further contact, this withdrawal
is no longer exhibited and the cirral net of the receiver
sometimes seems to draw the distal end of the donor's penis
into the shell. With the end of the penis inserted inside
the shell, the receiver often raises and rocks its operculum,
perhaps to adjust the position of the penis in its mantle cavity.
Finally, the operculum closes on the inserted penis and the
valves hold it tightly. Immediately thereafter the lumen of
3
