A. Wong Page 6
However, as bulging seminal vesicles were also found in some
receivers and in some animals which did not exhibit donor
behavior, it is clearly not the only factor causing mating
behavior. The fact that most donors were brooding ovigerous
lamellae and some receivers had full or partly full seminal
vesicles suggests that individuals may play the roles of donor
and receiver alternately during the breeding season. No barnacles
were ever seen exhibiting both donor and receiver behavior
simultaneously. The behavior in the two roles is so different
that it seems mechanically impossible for a pair of barnacles
to fertilize each other simultaneously.
The clearly directional probing of donors toward
specific receivers in both species and especially the multiple
copulation of one receiver in B. glandula strongly suggests
that the receiver may produce an attractant which is sensed
by the donors and directs the penis to it. Prospective
receivers of both species always had ovaries filled with ripe,
unfertilized ova, a condition not found in any of the donors.
It is possible that ripe ova or some factors accompanying the
presence of ripe ova, provide the stimulus. Collier, Ray and
Wilson (1956) reported that ascorbic acid in low concentrations
produced copulatory responses in barnacles. Preliminary experiments
carried out on B. glandula and B. tintinnabulum using either
crushed, ripe ova or ascorbic acid under various conditions
failed to elicit a mating behavior. Several barnacles in aquaria
were noticed probing at exuvia; however, barnacles experimentally
presented with fresh exuvia usually showed no response. What
this means is not clear, but Barnes and Barnes (1956) have
suggested that there is an intimate connection between moulting,
copulation and fertilization, and noted that most barnacles
moult after fertilization.
Walley (1965) found that in B. balanoides insemination
stimulated extrusion of eggs into the elastic sacs. Present
observations on B. glandula and B. tintinnabulum indicate that
this occurs in these species as well.
S
