strains. This conclusion is further supported by the similarities in their respective rates of
efflux with respect to rhodamine and verapamil controls (Figures 9, 10), a result that
would be expected from identical strains.
The six other tested strains did not show significant substrate activity, indicating
that the compounds in HP2 and DN2 that are substrates of MXR are not general products
of bacterial metabolism. The results with these strains then serve as controls for the
assays used in the study. For example, the HPI strain provided a negative bacterial
control; subject to the same extraction procedure as the other strains in question, HP1
consistently showed no substrate activity. The HP4 pellet extract provided a control for
assay specificity; while the HP4 pellet showed consistent activity when tested with the
accumulation assay, it repeatedly yielded negative results when tested with the efflux
assay. This result indicates that the HP4 pellet contains a substance that increases
rhodamine accumulation into tissues but does not decrease its rate of efflux into the
surrounding media. A possible explanation is that the substance in question interacts
with the gill cell wall without specifically binding MXR, thereby facilitating rhodamine
diffusion into the cell without affecting its efflux.
The prevalence of substrate activity in the HP2 and DN2 pellets despite the
absence of activity in the supernatants raises interesting questions as to the nature of the
substance causing the activity. There are a number of possibilities - the substance in
question may be a component of the bacterial cell wall and may thus end up solely in the
pellet fraction, or the substance could be one that is secreted by the bacteria and is soluble
in both the pellet and supernatant fractions, but simply more concentrated in the pellet.
Another, more probable explanation is that the bacteria may sequester the substance in
the cell. While the bacteria may secrete trace amounts of the substance into the
