Fig. 8) Territory size (log transformed) regressed against shell size (log
transformed) of nonterritorial limpets.
R =0.439, p» 0.05, n = 19
In nonterritorial limpets, there was no significant correlation between
territory size and shell size. Size of territory did not depend on size of
limpet.
Fig. 9) Territory size (log transformed) regressed against shell size (log
transformed) of nonterritorial limpets.
R =0.613, p « 0.001, n = 32
In territorial limpets, there was a significant positive correlation between
territory size and shell size. Territory size did depend, to a great degree,
on size of the limpet.
Fig. 10) Territorial limpet size regressed against home scar height.
R =0.516, p + 0.005, n =32
In territorial limpets, limpet size was negatively correlated with home scar
height. Larger limpets were found lower on the rock, closer to the water.
Fig. 11) Nonterritorial limpet size regressed against home scar height.
R=0.110, p» 0.50, n = 19
In nonterritorial limpets, limpet size did not determine the height of its
home scar. These limpets were found homing at all heights.
Fig 12) The ratio of average displacement to territory size regressed against the
fraction of times a territorial limpet was found displaced.
R =0.595, p + 0.001, n =32
Since the average displacement for a limpet depended on territory size,
the ratio of the two provided a normalized measure that could be
compared to the frequency of limpet displacements. A significant
negative relationship was found. A territorial limpet that moved more
frequently covered less distance in its territory each time compared to a
limpet that moved infrequently, but traveled greater distances when it did
move.
Fig. 13) The ratio of average displacement to territory size regressed against
the fraction of times a nonterritorial limpet was found displaced.
R = 0.356, p» 0.10, n = 19
No significant correlation was found between the average displacement
to territory size ratio and fraction of times a nonterritorial limpets was
displaced. The trend indicates that these limpets behave similarly to
territorial limpets, but insufficient data on limpets that moyed less than
10% of times prevented a statistically conclusive correlation.
Page 21
