LEGEND TO FIGURES
Figure 1. A. GFLNI and related CDNAs employed in synthesizing probe
The approximate locations of Nde I, Hind III and Nco I restriction
enzyme sites used in linearizing pNZ5-, pHMS1, and pNCS'are
shown. Figures are not drawn to scale. B. Schematic
representation of the regions of GFLNI to which each probe
corresponds. Note that all three probes relate to cytoplasmic
portions of the protein.
Figure 2. All photos are taken at 4X magnification. A. 10 micron thick
section of adult L. opalescens stellate ganglion stained with Multiple
Stain (Toluidine Blue and Basic Fuchsin; Polysciences, Inc.). The
section consists of both the giant fiber lobe (I) and stellate ganglion
(11). B. Adult stellate ganglion section hybridized with NZS¬
antisense probe. Diffuse staining in the cell body regions of the
giant fiber lobe and stellate ganglion (*) may be noted. C. Adult
stellate ganglion section hybridized with HMSI antisense probe.
Diffuse staining in the giant fiber lobe (1) and heavy staining in the
stellate ganglion (II) are seen. D. Adult stellate ganglion section
hybridized with NC5' sense (negative control) probe; labeling is not
apparent.
Figure 3. Photos A, B, C and D are taken at 10X magnification; photo E at
20X magnification. A. 10 micron thick section of adult L.
opalescens optic lobe stained with Multiple Stain (Toluidine Blue
and Basic Fuchsin; Polysciences, Inc.). Dark stained regions include
the outer granular layer (1), inner granular layer (II), and medulla
(III). B. Adult optic lobe section hybridized with NC5' sense probe
only diffuse background labeling can be seen. C. Adult optic lobe
section hybridized with NZ5- antisense probe; the probe labeled
localized regions along the inner granular layer (*). D. Adult optic
lobe section hybridized with HMSI antisense probe. Localized
labeling is apparent along the inner granular layer (1), outer
granular layer (II), and in the medulla (III). E. Magnified view of
localized labeling by HMSI probe in the medulla of an adult optic
lobe section.
