The ability to regenerate has been found to vary greatly among poly-
chaetes. At one extreme are Ctenodrilus (Korscheldt) and Dodecaceria
(Dehorne 1933; Martin 1933), which can regenerate completely from single
REGENERATE
segments. At the other extreme is Aphrodite, which cannotany lost seg-
ments (Clark and Clark 1962). Extensive work on the caudal regeneration
of a Nereid, Nereis diversicolor, has shown that the pygidium regenerates
within eight days of caudal amputation, and as many as twelve segments
regenerate within thirty days. However, it has been noted that there is
much individual variation in the number of regenerated segments (Clark
and Evans 1961).
There has been little study of Cirratulid regeneration. One species,
Dodecaceria, is able, as stated above, to regenerate entire worms from
individual segments. Another Cirratulid, Cirrineris, has been found to
regenerate a prostomiumand six to seven segments within ten days, and a
pygidium and twenty segments within sixteen days (Stone 1935).
In this investigation, the regenerative ability of the Cirratulid
Cirriformia spirabrancha (Moore, 1904) was tested with respect to various
parameters such as size of the animal and location of the wound. The
results of these experiments show that, under the laboratory conditions
used, C. spirabrancha does regenerate certain body parts, but at a slow
rate, and possibly to a limited extent, in comparison to Cirrineris and
certain other polychaetes, Nereis diversicolor (Clark and Bonney 1960)
and Nephtys (Clark and Clark 1962).
Materials and Methods
The C. spirabrancha used in these experiments were collected in
Monterey yacht harbor in spring 1968. The animals were kept in the lab-
oratory no longer than three days before being used.
It was found that unlike N. diversicolor, which autotomizes immediately
anterior to the point at which pressure is applied with tweezers (Clark
and Bonney 1960), C. spirabrancha remains intact after being squeezed.
This necessitated making a more unnatural wound in order to amputate
caudal segments. The appropriate cuts were made with a razor blade while
the animals were anaesthetized in isotonic magnesium chloride solution.
Within a few minutes after the animal is cut, the wound is closed by con-
striction of the circular muscles of the two or three segments nearest
3/
