GFAP Immunoreactivity in Octopus Nervous System
Before and After Injury
Abstract
Astrogliosis following injury to the mammalian central nervous
system is accompanied by increased synthesis of glial fibrillary
acidic protein (GFAP) and the lack of regeneration. In order to
extend studies of GFAP expression in relation to injury in taxa of
higher regenerative capacity, we chose Octopus rubescens as a model
system. We used a polyclonal anti-human GFAP in conjunction with
immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry techniques applied to optic
lobes of the brain and to peripheral axial nerve cords in the arms.
Animals were also studied before and after lesion to the axial
nerves that contain ganglionic regions of neuronal and glial
somata. In uninjured Octopus,
Western blots with boh tissue
sources revealed a single protein band (140KD). Pre-absorption of
the antibody with purified human GFAP eliminated this band, which
is larger than the 48-51 KD
protein found in vertebrates.
Immunostaining of fixed and sectioned material from axial nerve
cords showed that anti-GFAP preferentially stained cellular
regions. This pattern is distinct from that produced by anti¬
neurofilament, which stained primarily neuropil and axons. Studies
were also carried out following injury (amputation) to the axial
nerve cords. Nine days after injury, immunoblotting revealed an
increased level of the 140 KD band. Experiments on other
cephalopods were also carried out. In uninjured Sepia officianalis,
Sepioteuthis lessoniana, and Loligo opalescens, the 140 KD band was
not detected by Western blots with optic lobe proteins. This
product was obtained, however, with axial nerve material from
Sepia. These results (i) indicate the presence of a GFAP-like
protein in the nervous system of cephalopods, (ii) show that
increased protein levels accompany injury in the peripheral nerve
cords in Octopus, and (iii) suggest that the protein may be
associated with glial cells.
Introduction
In mammalian systems, there is experimental evidence that
glial scarring presents an impediment to regeneration in the
central nervous system (Reier et al., 1983; Windle et al., 1952).
Such glial scarring is characterized by swelling of the astrocyte
