Figure Legends:
Fig. 1. Morphological Differences between TET induced TRPM7 overexpressing cells
and uninduced control cells. Uninduced HEK-293 cells show a spindly morphology
often with elongated processes. Following induction with tetracycline (TET) cells
become more rounded and often contain large vacuoles.
Fig. 2. TET induced TRPM7 overexpressing cells as they appear using confocal laser
microscopy. Ten individual cells defined as regions of interest (ROIs).
Fig. 3. Change in fluorescence over time in response to a change in external solutions
from 2mM Ca buffered saline to OmM Ca“ buffered saline. Perfusion with the OmM
Ca“ buffered saline occurred from 20 to 80 seconds. Red circles represent the response
ET induced TRPM7 overexpressing cells. Blue triangles represent the response of
uninduced control cells.
Fig. 4. Change in fluorescence over time in response to a change in external solutions
from OmM Ca“ buffered saline to 2mM Ca“ buffered saline. Perfusion with the 2mM
Ca“ buffered saline occurred from 20 to 80 seconds. Red circles represent the response
of TET induced TRPM7 overexpressing cells. Blue triangles represent the response of
uninduced control cells.
Fig. 5. Change in fluorescence over time in response to a change in external solutions,
from OmM Mg“ to one of four concentrations of Mg*. Ca concentration is maintained
at 2mM Ca“. (a) TET induced cells overexpressing TRPM7 (b) Control cells
Fig. 6. Change in fluorescence over time in response to a change in external solutions
containing one of four concentrations of Mg to external solutions containing no Mg
Ca“ concentration is maintained at 2mM Ca“. (a) TET induced cells overexpressing
TRPM7 (b) Control cells
Fig. 7. Change in fluorescence over time in response to the removal of Ca- from
external solution. In each trial, Mg“ concentration is maintained at one of four
concentrations. (a) TET induced cells overexpressing TRPM7 (b) Control cells
Fig. 8. Percent block of TRPM7 as a function of Mg concentration. (a) % block
calculated from experiment in which the concentration of Mg“ is increased while
external Ca“ concentration is maintained. (b) % block calculated from experiment in
which the concentration of Mg“ is decreased while external Ca“ concentration is
maintained.
Fig. 9. Individual cells show considerable variation in their response to a change in
external solution from OmM Ca“ to 2mM Ca
