the 2-cell stage. The cell division schedule in the 5 uM group was delayed—one could see the
cells in the process of dividing but cytokinesis had not yet happened at 2 hours. In the 7 uM
group at this time, all zygotes were completely at the 1-cell stage, looking round.
At about 2.5 hours after fertilization, the control and 1 uM groups looked mostly healthy.
Both groups had approximately equal numbers of 2-cell and 4-cell stage embryos. Cell division
abnormalities started emerging in the 3 uM group at this time, though many of the embryos also
made it to normal 2-cell and 4-cell stages. The 5 uM group was clearly developmentally behind
the groups with lower concentrations. Most of the embryos exposed to 5 uM BPA were still at
the 1-cell or 2-cell stages, and the ones that were beyond the 2-cell stage clearly had incomplete
cytokinesis and unequal divisions. (Fig. 1) In the 7 uM group, there were hardly any discernible
boundaries between cells. Most of the zygotes could be categorized as being at the 1-cell stage,
but there were invaginations in the cell membrane and the zygotes were no longer round. Each
embryo in this group contained fewer cells than the embryos of the other groups.
At about 3.5 hours after fertilization, the control group was predominantly at the 8-cell
stage. The 3 uM and 5 uM groups had predominantly abnormal zygotes with 8 or more cells.
The 7 uM group, in contrast, had mostly morphologically abnormal zygotes that clearly had less
than 8 cells. At about 4 hours after fertilization, the control, 1 uM, and 3 uM groups were
apparently at the morula stage, whereas the 5 uM group contained comparatively less cells and
more deformities. The 7 uM group was delayed even further. It had more cases of incomplete
cytokinesis and more morphologically deformed cells than the 5 uM group.
Later on, all the zygotes looked like they were at the morula stage and it became
impossible to visually discern how many cells an embryo had. The sheer number of cells also
