In my experiment, I cannot feed BPA to sea urchin embryos using ng BPA/ body weight
because the embryos are too small. For the purpose of our discussion, we shall use the weight of
the sea water surrounding the embryos in the denominator and assume that an embryo's body is
also predominantly water. The molecular weight of BPA is 228.29. Calculations show that if
Hunt et al fed BPA to mice at 20 ng BPA/ g mice body weight, then they were feeding 8.76 x 10
moles of BPA to each kilogram of mice. Assuming the density of animal body and water are
approximately the same, the concentration at which Hunt et al achieved an effect was 8.76 x 10
M. The lowest concentration where my experiment achieved a clearly discernible effect was 3
x 10° M. Thus, Hunt’s effective concentration was about 33 times lower than mine. However,
because BPA is practically insoluble in water, it may accumulate in the fatty tissues of the mice.
This may explain the extremely low effective concentration presented in Hunt et al’s study.
Remarkably, in the study conducted by Parry et al, an effectively aneugenic concentration
of BPA was as high as about 40 uM. (Parry et al, 2002) At such concentration, Parry et al
showed that dividing cells became multipolar because the chemical may have interacted with
components of the centrosomes that make up the poles of the mitotic spindle. In contrast to
Parry et al’s finding, my experiments show that 40 uM of BPA would kill the S. purpuratus
embryos instantly. In addition, according to Tyl et al, BPA damages the health of SD rats at only
above 750 ppm. (Tyl et al, 2002) This concentration is equal to 3.285 x 10 M, which, like
Parry's effective concentration, is significantly higher than the concentration that inhibits
blastocoel formation in sea urchin embryos.
The wide differences among effective concentration shown by the aforementioned studies
suggest that there may be species-dependent factors regarding vulnerability to BPA. The levels
of BPA that affect mice, rats, and hamsters, three species of rodents, are completely different.
11
