Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
intact eggs and 72% of control for defolliculated eggs, while eggs irradiated with both UVA
and UVB hatched at 72.3% and 64.4% of control for intact and defolliculated eggs.
respectively. A slight delay in development dependent on UV exposure was observed, but
there was no evidence that delays differed with the presence or absence of follicle cells.
The third experiment assayed multiple time points in order to better assess the kinetics
of hatching. As seen in Figure 9, the percentage of eggs that hatched increased with time, but
the hatching leveled off after about 23 to 25 hours of development. There was no difference
between eggs not exposed to UV and eggs exposed to UVA and UVB. (Exposure to UVA only
was omitted as a treatment for this experiment.) Intact eggs hatched at about 48% of total at
21.75 hours, and leveled off within the next three hours to a hatching rate of about 56% of
total, regardless of whether they were exposed to UV or not. Similarly, defolliculated eggs
hatched at about 17% at the first time point and subsequently leveled off at about 20%. The
fact that by the time the first time point was taken, a significant number of tadpoles had already
hatched indicates that additional kinetic studies are in order for future experiments, particularly
one which documents in detail the progression of hatching from the point at which tadpoles
first begin to appear.
Floaters and Sinkers
During the course of the experiments studying developmental delay it became apparent
that the method of egg isolation used was systematically selecting against eggs of high
buoyancy. The more buoyant eggs were often lost in the supernatant when eggs were being
washed in preparation for fertilization. This was studied in more detail in order to confirm that
this egg selection bias would not alter the results of studies of developmental delay. An
experiment measuring the mycosporine content of methanol extracts of both more buoyant and
less buoyant eggs was performed and the results of the spectophotometric analysis of the
methanol extracts was standardized to original protein content using a BCA protein assay
