Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
Each section was covered with a different filter: what shall subsequently be referred to as
receiving no UV was covered with a sheet of a transparent plastic known as OP3, which does
not transmit wavelengths below 400 nm. The UVAB portion of the chamber was filtered with
a similar material, UVT, which is completely UV transparent. The covering for the UVA
section consisted of a sheet of UVT and a thin sheet of mylar, which only transmitted
wavelengths above 320 nm. Eggs were placed in the chamber on clear to partly cloudy days
between 10 and 11 AM and left for varying lengths of time as indicated. The chamber was
oriented with the long axis of the water bath running east and west. The partitions were
oriented in a north to south direction so that each section received comparable amounts of
direct sunlight from sunrise until approximately 1:30 P.M., at which time the chamber was
blocked from direct sunlight by a nearby building.
Cleavage Delay
Intact and defolliculated eggs from 6 to 8 individuals were collected and each aliquot
was diluted to a 30 mL final volume. Sperm motility was activated by diluting 3 mL dry sperm
into 1.5 mL 0.003 M Tris seawater adjusted to pH 9.2 with NaÖH, and the resulting sperm
suspension was checked for motility under a dark field microscope at 100x magnification 5
minutes after activation. Intact and defolliculated eggs were each fertilized in one large batch
with 600 mL of sperm suspension a maximum of 20 minutes after sperm activation. The
embryos were then transferred to 5 mL petri dishes. Petri dishes were prepared to prevent
sticking with a rinse in a 0.1% gelatin and 0.1% formaldehyde solution followed by two rinses
with deionized water and one rinse with filtered seawater. 5 mL aliquots of fertilized egg
suspension were placed into each petri dish and 2 replicate dishes of each folliculation
treatment were exposed to each of the three treatments in the UV chamber. In the first
experimental trial the eggs were fixed in a 1% final concentration of formaldehyde at 1 hour
and 55 minutes after fertilization, while in the second trial the eggs were allowed to develop for
only 90 minutes before fixation. For the first trial, 500-800 embryos exposed to each treatment
