Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
The time of fixation in the two experiments was based on a time of development assay
on a test sample performed previous to the UV-exposure trials. This test indicated that
embryos first began to cleave into 8 cells (third division) at 125 minutes after fertilization when
incubated at 15°C. It was important that the embryos be fixed just as this third cell division
was taking place, so that any delays in development would be easily observed.
For the first trial, embryos were fixed at 115 minutes after fertilization, but as the
temperature in the chamber unexpectedly to 18°C, they developed more rapidly than expected
as indicated by the test development assay. As seen in Figures 1-3, these embryos were mostly
in the 8-cell stage by the time they were fixed. Figure 3 also shows that embryos exposed to
both UVA and UVB were slightly more abundant at the 4-cell stage when compared to the
control embryos and the embryos exposed only to UVA: 7% of intact and 16% of
defolliculated embryos exposed to UVA and B had not yet undergone the third division.
whereas the embryos exposed to UVA and the control group were 5 to 10% lower.
These results indicate a slight developmental delay may have been experienced by
embryos exposed to UVA and B, suggesting that UV-induced damage may have slowed the
rate of cleavage. However, the observed developmental delay was not affected by the presence
or absence of the mycosporine-containing follicle cells. The developmental delay is not as
apparent when expressed as minutes of development. There are only slight differences in
average length of development in different sets of embryos and no trend is apparent (see Table
In the second experiment, the distributions of the division stages are centered around
the 4-cell stage (see Figures 4-6), indicating that embryos were fixed slightly earlier in the
course of their development. In the control group, 41% of intact and 37% of defolliculated
embryos had reached the 8-cell stage, whereas for the UVA-irradiated embryos, just 10% and
4% respectively had undergone the third round of cleavage. For the UVAB group, the
percentages were only 0.3 and 0.9 %, respectively.
