Figure 5
Figure 6:
Figure 7
Figure 8:
Figure 9:
Figure 10:
Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
Trial H2: Distribution of embryos exposed to UVA. The distribution of UVA¬
irradiated embryos was also centered around the 4-cell stage, while fewer
embryos (10.5% of intact and 4.29% of defolliculated) had cleaved into 8 cells.
Trial f2: Distribution of embryos exposed to UVAB. UVAB-irradiated embryos
had generally not yet undergone the third round of cleavage: only 0.3% of intact
and 0.9% of defolliculated embryos had cleaved to 8 cells.
Trial H: UV inhibition of tadpole hatching at a single time point. Both UVA¬
and UVAB-irradiated embryos show a drop in the percentage of defolliculated
eggs that hatched into tadpoles when compared to irradiated, intact eggs after
standardization to the non-irradiated control. Samples were fixed 24.5 hours
after fertilization. 22.4% of all eggs scored in this trial hatched into tadpoles.
Trial 42: UV inhibition of tadpole hatching at a single time point. The trend
evident in Figure 7 is no longer obvious in this trial, in which embryos were
fixed slightly earlier, at 23 hours and 40 minutes after fertilization. Differences
between various UV treatments and follicle cell removal are minimal, the
largest difference being the 12% drop between intact and defolliculated eggs
exposed to UVA. 27.5% of the eggs scored in the trial hatched into tadpoles,
Kinetics of UV inhibition of tadpole hatching. This time series suggests that UV
treatment has no clear effect on tadpole hatching, regardless of time of
development. Intact eggs hatched at approximately 50-55% of total, while
defolliculated eggs hatched at approximately 17-20% of total. 35.9% of the
eggs scored in this trial developed into tadpoles.
Relative mycosporine concentrations in Ascidia eggs. Comparison of ratios of
absorbence per mg protein between floating and sinking eggs from each of
seven specimens of A. ceratodes. Neither category of eggs consistently exhibits
a higher absorbence ratio.
