Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
responsible for shielding the egg from potentially damaging wavelengths of UV radiation
through the use of UV-absorbing sunscreen molecules known as mycosporine-like amino acids,
or MAAs (Hemela 1993)
The mycosporine compounds present in the follicle cells of A. ceratodes are found in
other marine taxa ranging from the Antarctic to temperate and tropical waters (Karentz 1991;
Shick et al 1992) including the eggs of marine invertebrates (Chioccara et al 1986). It is
believed that most marine taxa cannot synthesize these mycosporine-like amino acids (Karentz
et al) and so it is generally assumed that mycosporines are either accumulated dietarily as in
green sea urchin eggs (Carroll and Shick 1996), or else they are obtained from algal or fungal
symbionts. As noted, these MAAs might play a UV-protective role, a theory that gained
support in 1995 when Shick et al noted a pattern of increasing UV sensitivity and decreasing
concentrations of mycosporine-like amino acids with increasing depth of occurrence in the
zooxanthellate coral Acropora microphthalma.
Removal of A. ceratodes follicle cells results in a noticeable cleavage delay and delay to
tadpole hatching when embryos are irradiated with a UV lamp in the laboratory (Hemela 1993)
Adams and Shick in 1996 described a similar trend in the green sea urchin: a cleavage delay
was observed in UV-irradiated urchin eggs with few dietarily-supplied mycosporines when
compared to urchin eggs from a female fed a diet abundant in MAAS.
A problem with the above two studies is that both were performed in the absence of
visible light, which prevented any DNA repair by the action of the photorepair enzyme
photolyase. This enzyme, first noticed in Arabacia eggs in 1949 by Marshak, absorbs radiation
in the range of visible blue light and uses this energy for the photorepair of pyrimidine dimers
formed when DNA is irradiated with UVB (Todo et al 1996).
The research described here addresses how applicable the previous research on UV-
induced developmental delays is to organisms living in their natural setting, i.e. where they
experience only the levels of radiation present in natural sunlight. The studies done by Adams
