Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
pace: embryos without follicle cells that were exposed to UVA and B did not differ
significantly in pace of development from intact embryos of the same radiation exposure. The
distribution of embryos in trial +2 indicated that a radiation-linked delay to the 8-cell stage was
present (especially in embryos exposed to UVAB: see Figure 6), but this delay was not
dependent on the presence or absence of the egg's follicle cells. This suggests that although
mycosporines may play a role in UV defense, it is not a critical one. One hypothesis that might
explain the developmental delay observed is that UV damage is occurring to a significant
extent in both intact and defolliculated eggs, where the photolyase enzymatic repair system is
robust enough to repair any solar UV-induced damage regardless of whether the mycosporines
in the follicle cells are present or not.
It is also conceivable that the MAAs did screen out UV, but that differences in speed of
development would not be apparent until later in development. Three examinations of time to
tadpole hatching were conducted to test this hypothesis. The first trial indicated that the
hypothesis was indeed correct: there was a clear difference between the numbers of intact and
defolliculated eggs that had hatched in both samples exposed to UVAB as well as in samples
exposed to just UVA. Further trials failed to repeat this result, however, and a final test in
which a time series was constructed indicated that there was no observable difference in time to
hatching between embryos exposed to UV radiation and non-irradiated controls, regardless of
the presence of follicle cells (Figure 9). Unfortunately, the first time point in this study was
taken later than would have been ideal, and further kinetic studies including time points taken
earlier in the hatching process should be done in the future. It is critical to examine the
samples at just the point in time where undamaged embryos have completed hatching but
damaged embryos have not.
One final experiment was performed to confirm that these results were not an artifact of
the method of egg isolation, where repeated washings in which eggs are pelleted and the wash
water aspirated away resulted in the less buoyant tunicate eggs being preferentially collected.
