Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
In this trial, a developmental delay was demonstrated by both UVA-exposed and
UVAB-exposed embryos. This shift is also evident in the calculated minutes of development,
where the embryos not exposed to UV were 10 to 15 minutes faster in their development than
the embryos exposed to UV, regardless of whether they were exposed to UVA only or to both
UVA and UVB (Table 2). It is important to note that once again, the developmental delay
observed is experienced by both intact and defolliculated eggs.
Tadpole Hatchin
Three experimental trials were performed to assay the effects of UV exposure on time
to hatching. Intact and defolliculated eggs were fertilized and placed in the UV exposure
chamber. A test dish of intact embryos not exposed to UV was monitored for the first
appearance of hatched tadpoles to indicate when hatching had begun. In the first two
experiments, this time was then used to fix the experimental embryos and tadpoles in
formaldehyde. Each of these trials thus measured only a single time point. In the third trial.
the rate of hatching was determined by fixing embryos approximately 30 minutes to an hour
after hatching began, and subsequent samples at 30 minutes, 90 minutes, and three hours after
the first set was fixed. The time to hatching in each of the three trials was approximately 23
hours after fertilization. The proportion of hatched tadpoles in each of the UV treatments was
standardized to that of the appropriate control.
In the first trial, embryos exposed to UVA achieved 72.1% of the control hatching rate
for intact eggs and only 37.8% of the control hatching rate for defolliculated eggs (Figure 7).
Embryos exposed to UVA and UVB illustrated this trend even more dramatically, with intact
eggs hatching at 103.3% of control rates and defolliculated eggs hatching at just 14.9% of
control rates. A clear UV-induced delay in time to hatching was observed, which varied with
presence or absence of follicle cells.
In the second trial this trend was not apparent, despite the fact that the embryos were
fixed slightly earlier (Figure 8). The UVA-irradiated embryos hatched at 89.6% of control for
