Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
To obtain gametes, an incision was made along the tunic on the animal's ventral side
through which the animal was removed from its tunic. The red oviduct was then punctured
with a 25 gauge syringe needle and the eggs transferred with a glass pipet directly into seawater
adjusted to pH 6.0 with 1.0 and 0.1 MHCl. The eggs were incubated at pH 6.0 for one hour at
15°C and then pelleted in a hand centrifuge and washed three times with filtered seawater.
Eggs not used immediately were stored in filtered seawater for a maximum of twelve hours at
15°C. Sperm were collected undiluted with seawater by puncture of the white sperm duct and
transfer to a 1.5 mL Eppendorf tube with a glass pipet. Sperm were stored for a maximum of
24 hours at 4°
Defolliculation
Eggs were typically harvested from several individuals in the late afternoon or early
evening and left overnight at 15°C. Between 9 and 10:30 AM the following morning the
settled eggs were thoroughly resuspended and divided between two 12 mL conical glass
centrifuge tubes. They were then spun down in a hand centrifuge, and the resulting supernatant
was aspirated away to leave a slurry of approximately 2 to 3 mL egg suspension in each
aliquot. One aliquot of eggs was left intact, while the other was transferred to a 30 mL beaker
Next the follicle cells were removed by slowly running the slurry through a 22-gauge syringe
10 to 15 times. The eggs were monitored under a microscope during the defolliculation
process to assay levels of damage and follicle cell removal. The process was continued until
approximately 70% of the follicle cells had been removed. The eggs were combined with 10-
12 mL seawater in a glass centrifuge tube and both the defolliculated and intact eggs were spun
down, aspirated, and washed with filtered seawater three times. Finally the eggs were diluted
in seawater to a final concentration of approximately 1 to 3%.
UV Treatments
A water bath cooled with circulating seawater at ambient seasonal water temperature of
15-18°C was divided into three sections and used as an outdoor chamber for UV exposure.
