Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
The first trial of this experiment was composed of individuals 1-1 and 1-2 (Figure 10).
In each of these individuals, the more buoyant eggs exhibited higher ratios of absorbence
between 300 and 400 nm, per milligram original protein content, ranging from a 8.9%
difference in individual 1-1 to a 16.3% difference in individual 1-2. In the second experimental
trial, there was no general pattern to which class of egg buoyancy had the higher ratio;
percentages ranged from floaters being 13.4% higher than sinkers (individual 2-5) to sinkers
being 74.3% higher than floaters (individual 2-6). An example of an absorbence spectrum is
shown in Figure 11. These results indicate there was no correlation between mycosporine
content and egg buoyancy.
DISCUSSION
Research done previous to these experiments implied that the sunscreen qualities
afforded by mycosporine-like amino acids present in follicle cells play an important role in
absorbing potentially damaging ultraviolet radiation. Carroll and Shick (1996) noted that
mycosporine-like amino acids in eggs might act as sunscreen molecules to protect embryos
from UV damage as they develop.
This suggestion was bolstered by the papers of Hemela (1993), and Adams and Shick
(1996), which indicated that mycosporines allowed embryos to proceed through early cell
divisions faster than embryos who lacked such photoprotection. However, the research in both
these studies used UV lamps to provide the damaging radiation and the embryos were kept in
the dark so that photorepair of any DNA damage by enzymes such as photolyase could not take
place. The trends they describe are intriguing but tell us little about what happens to embryos
developing outside of the laboratory.
The cleavage delay experiments described here illustrate that under conditions more
closely approximating those experienced by ascidian embryos in a natural setting, the
mycosporine-containing follicle cells are not necessary for cleavage to proceed at a normal
