Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
were scored for development to the 1-, 2-, 4-, and 8- cell stage, while in the second trial as
many as 2500 embryos per treatment were scored to compensate for an unusually low
percentage of developing embryos.
Total minutes of development reached by embryos exposed to each treatment were
calculated by multiplying the proportion of embryos at the 2-cell stage by 60 minutes, the
proportion at the 4-cell stage by 90 minutes, the proportion at the 8-cell stage by 120 minutes.
and then summing the three terms to calculate the total number of minutes of development
represented by each sample. Embryos at the 1-cell stage were not included in data analysis due
to the inability to distinguish whether these eggs experienced a developmental delay, or were
simply unfertilized.
Tadpole Hatching
For the first experimental trial, which included just one time point, intact and
defolliculated eggs were left for 24.5 hours in the UV chamber in petri dishes treated with
gelatin and formaldehyde as described above. Samples were then scored for percent of total
eggs that hatched into tadpoles within that time period. The second trial also included just one
time point, where the ascidians were fixed 23 hours and 40 minutes after fertilization. The
third trial included four time points: two replicate dishes of each treatment were scored at 21
hours and 45 minutes after fertilization, then replicate dishes were scored at 22 hours 15
minutes, 23 hours 15 minutes, and 24 hours and 45 minutes. Untreated petri dishes were used
for the second and third trials.
MAAs in Floaters and Sinkers
Methanol Extraction
Eggs were collected from 2 individuals for the first experimental trial and 6 individuals
for the second trial. Eggs from each individual were stored separately overnight in filtered
seawater at 15°C. (The pH 6.0 treatment was not used for this series of experiments.) The
eggs were spun down in conical glass centrifuge tubes and then allowed to settle for
