Unger: Photoprotection in Ascidia
approximately one hour until all eggs had settled into the pellet. The seawater was then
aspirated away, leaving a final volume of eggs and water that totaled approximately 1.2 mL.
To separate floaters from sinkers, this slurry was carefully pipetted with a wide-
mouthed 10 mL glass pipet into 40 mL of filtered seawater in a 50 mL conical plastic
centrifuge tube. The eggs were allowed to settle for 5 minutes, after which time the water
above the 5 mL mark was collected into conical glass centrifuge tubes and classified as
"floaters," while the bottom 5 mL were transferred to another centrifuge tube and labeled as
"sinkers.
In the second experimental trial the procedure was followed as above with the
following additional steps. The sinkers from the first separation were added to another 40
mL of seawater and again allowed to settle; the floaters from this second settling were
pooled together with the floaters from the first settling
All samples of both the floaters and the sinkers were spun in a hand centrifuge and then
allowed to settle until all eggs had sunk. Next most of the seawater was aspirated from
each sample and the eggs were transferred to 1.5 mL Eppendorf tubes with a glass pipet.
The samples were again spun in a hand centrifuge and allowed to settle completely. As
much seawater as possible was aspirated from the eggs, and 1 mL methanol at 15°C was
added to each sample.
The eggs were allowed to extract in the methanol for one hour at 15°C, where each was
resuspended four times over the course of the hour by inversion of the tube. At the end of
the hour the samples were spun down in a hand centrifuge and 900 mL of the methanol
from each sample were transferred to Eppendorf tubes. Another 1 mL of methanol at 15°C
was added to each sample and the extraction process was repeated. For assaying protein in
the pellet, residual methanol was removed from each sample and discarded. 0.5 mL of hot
(50-60°C) IN NaÖH was added to each pellet, vortexed, and left overnight to dissolve for
use in the protein assay (see below).
