c
LEGEND
Figure 1: Photograph of the transect at Mussel Point, calif.
Looking northward, the Bird Rocks appear in the upper righthand
corner. Reference point Bis indicated in the lower righthand
corner. Subtidal transect is 30 meters East of Bird Rock.
Figure 2: Photograph of the suction purp used in sampling, with
the collecting bag, shovel, and series of graded gcregns in the
background. The inverted bucket covers a waterrurp to recirculate
sea water used to waeh specimens and substrate isto the profer
screens.
Figure 3: Sketch of intertidal transect. Sample nurbers on wap
corresrond with those below dieks (3e). Inset (7c) is of ertire
transect 1/4 X scale of main sketch to show relationskigs of
figs. 3a-c. In this figure and thoee which follow, the abbreviations
used are: P. sam, Pagurus samuelis; P. hirs, Pagurus hirsutlusculus;
11111.
drus granosimanus; P. hewp, Pagurus he
P. gran, Pa
Scale at right incicates Clstance from refererce point B in meters.
Liscs ahow a composition of each sample by species.
Figure 4: Species comrosition of intertidal samples. N indicates
total number in each samrle per 0.1 metere, D indicates Cistances
from shore groupe within 10 meter bands. S indicates sample nümber,
corresponding to the same number on map and disc, fig. Ja-d. Species
designations same as fig. 30.
Figure 5: Horizontal distribution by species in the intertical,
Percentages are of total crabs taken, 2921 indivicuals. M, meters
from shore (ref. pt. B). N, number of given species collected.
Eroad bands represent 90 of the given population, narrow lines,
the remaining 10%.
Figure 6: Species comrosition of intertidal samples averaged over
10 meter horizontal bands. Solid lines with croeses, Pagyryg samuelis
dotted lines with circles, Fagurus granosimanus; dashed lines with
squares, Pagurue hirsutiusculus; dots and dacheg with triangles,
1111. Peints plotted above are obtained from fig. 4
Pagurus herph
by averaging the percentages recorded in each 10 meter tand.
M. meters from ref. pt. B; % are of total crats collecte in the
given 10 meter band.
Figure 7: Vertical Cistribution by species. M, reters above mean
low low water; broad bands, percentages, & Nas Gesignated in fig. 5.
Figure 8: Adult and juvenile populations in samples of two épecies.
Grav incicates adults found in screens 1-3, white indicates juvenilee
found in screens 5 & 6, and stripes indica'e mixed pogulations fouge
in sereen 4. N, number of P. Samuelis or P. grancgigarus per 0.1 mo.
