individually, py name, new genera and supergeneric tax
4. Detailed descriptions of experiments or organisms.
except where this would require a long list, as in some
5. Long lists of names; species or subgenus names with¬
monographic revisions; do not mention by name a long
out genus name. (See directions for systematic papers,
list of new species and subspecific taxa when these are
below.)
merely proposed and described-give only number in each
genus, naming genus and country or region of origin.
FORM-I. Begin with a citation in the following form: DOE,
(Exception: always include new species names of bacteria
JOHN J. (U. Commonwealth, Capitol City), and RICH¬
ARD ROE. Metabolism of phosphorus in rats. Jour. Pest
and viruses.
Control Res. 37(4): 152-165. 1957. (Foreign language
PROPOSALS OF NEW TAXA. For plants: include name of
titles should be followed by an English translation.
genus, family, and phylum (divisio, Abteilung); country
2. Use abbreviations sparingly, and only as directed." (See
state, or region; number of each kind of new taxon; type
below)
of critical evidence, e.g., floral morphology, distribution,
3. For chemicals, use standard rather than proprietary
chromosome number. For animals: as above, except:
genus, family, and (for insects, order) for other groups
terms; avoid trade names.
class and phylum. Thus: Sarcophagidae [Dipteral, 00
4. For organisms, use genus and species names, always un¬
new genera and 00 new spp. in U.S., from a Colorado
derlined, excepting widely used experimental species
mountain previously unexplored; or, Graphops [Chrysome-
(dog, rabbit) and commonly cultivated crops (apple, po¬
tato). The name should be affiliated, either formally
lidae: Coleoptera), 10 new spp. and 43 new sspp. in
IVespidae: Hymenopteral or informally "a leguminous
Erewhon, on the basis of genitalic characters; or, Tropi¬
tree, or "a staphylinid beetle, either in the title or in
corbis [Planorbidae: Gastropoda, Molluscal grandis, 6 new
the first sentence.
sspp. in Brazil, based on shell morphology and capacity te
transmit X disease; or Poa [Gramineae: Monocot.l, 3 new
ABBREVIATIONS—Use sparingly. Consider the reader who is
spp. in Norway, on the basis of morphology, chromosome
not a specialist, or to whom American English is a foreign
number, and ecologic amplitude.
language. When in doubt, spell it out.
Do abbreviate or symbolize:
PROPOSALS OF CHANGE IN CLASSIFICATIONS AND/OR
1. Those units of weight and measure listed in the Hand¬
NOMENCLATURE (e.g., new combinations, names) should
book of Chemistry and Physics, 35th Edition 1953-1954.
include:
pages 3100-3102 (Chemical Rubber Publishing Co.), o
For transfers, or changes of rank: The proposed combina-
which the commonest are listed below;" but only when
tion and, in parentheses, the basonym and its author.
"10 ug" but sev¬
preceded by numerical amounts. .. .
Xylobium pickianum (Bifrenaria pickiana Schlechter); or,
eral micrograms. . . . . . "40%“ but "per cent of gain.
Oncidium brachyandrum var. johannis (O.j. Schlechter).
2. Numbers, except at the beginning of a sentence.
For changes of status (validity or synonymy): The valid
3. Chemical elements, except when part of the name of
name, its author if not new here, and, in parentheses the
a compound. "K deficiency but potassium 2-naphthyl
invalid name and author, preceded by an = sign. Ex¬
sulfate excretion.
planatory word or phrase is desirable, e.g., "revived" or
4. Names of institutions and journals, as carried in the
preoccupied." Erisma floribundum Rudge (= E. par¬
BIOLOGICAL ABSTRACTS Journal List.
vifolium Gleason), or, GANELIUS (= Nagelius Benesh
5. The words species, subspecies, variety, form, but only
preocc.
in taxonomic abstracts.
DISTRIBUTION DATA should mention:
6. Substantives used repeatedly, such as names of com¬
1. First records. "Rheumatobates clanis, R. minutus, and
pounds, hormones, genes, but only after they have beer
..... are new to Florida and to the U.S.
spelled out the first time used in each abstract, followed
immediately by the symbol in parentheses. "luteinizing
2. New localities, range statements, distribution maps.
New records (listed) for Eurycea lucifuga show that it
hormone (LH)" or "acetylcholine (ACh)" or crossvein¬
less (cy). Such symbol-letters should not be spaced, nor
does not have a disjunct range in Illinois, but extends . . .
underlined. ACTH, not ACTH.
3. Range changes. "Species representing major extensions
Do not abbreviate:
of geographic range in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago
1. Geographical names.
are: Aulacomnium acuminatum,...
2. Short words such as day, year, ton.
4. Faunistic/floristic changes, e.g., establishment and
8. Any special technical terms, no matter how commonly
naturalization of weed spp.; spp. approaching extinction.
used in your field, unless treated as in number 6 above.
5. For fossils, epoch or period for each formation or group
4. Greek letters, except in chemical compounds.
mentioned.
Abbreviation for both singular and plural, except as noted.
ounce
lethal dose
basal metabolic rate
BMR
LD
parts per million
use chemical symbols minimum lethal dose MLD
ppm
chemical elements
per cent
meter
cubic centimeter
per mille
microgram
cycles per second
Cor F
pound
micron
degrees of temperature
respiratory quotient
milliampere
electrocardiogram
species (for tax. only)
milliequivalent
sp. (spp.)
electroencephalogram
meq
subcutaneous
subcut.
milligram
form (for tax. only)
subspecies (for tax. only) ssp. (sspp.)
milliliter
gram
ultraviolet
hydogen ion concentration pH
names of months
Jan., Feb., Aug.,
Sept., Oct., Nov., Dec. variety (for tax. only)
var. (vars.)
kilogram
molar
volume
kilovolt
normal (solution)
SAMPLE ABSTRAC
TRAVIS, JOHN W., ALEXANDER C. KEYL, and CARL
Ann. Missouri Bot. Garden 42(1): 1-100. Illus. 1955.—A
monograph of the section Tetragonostachys of the subgenus
. DRAGSTEDT. (Northwestern U. Med. Sch., Chicago.)
Selaginella (43 spp.); with taxonomic history, morphology and
The effect of pancreatectomy on the toxicity of k-strophanthin
life history, phylogeny, distributon and ecology preceding the
in the dog. Jour. Pharmacol. and Exptl. Therap. 117(2): 148
systematic treatment. Included are a synopsis of the subgenus
150. 1956.—Comparison of the lethal doses of k-strophanthin in
proposals of 2 sections with 4 new series, 4 new spp. and 4
normal and depancreatized dogs indicates that the diabetic
new sspp., descriptions, keys, literature and specimen citations,
state raises the resistance of the animals to the toxic effects
synonymies, maps, and photographs. Cited as of special in¬
of the drug as determined by the intravenous lethal dose pro
terest are the xeric ecology of the group (prolonged dormancy
cedure. The lethal doses for 14 normal and 8 depancreatized
on desiccation), and the evolutionary significance of the dis¬
dogs were 0.147 and 0.214 mg/kg, respectively, which is a
tribution patterns of its sexual and apogamous races.
significant difference at the 1% probability level. Animals ren¬
DILLON, LAWRENCE S. (A. and M. Coll. Texas, College
dered hyperglycemic by intravenous administration of d-glucose
Station.) The neotropic Acanthocinini (Coleoptera: Ceram¬
are not afforded similar protection, and these results tend to
bycidae). II. A further note on Canidia allies. Ent. News
support the belief that insulin is involved in the transport of k-
strophanthin across the cell membrane.—A. C. Keyl.
67 (4): 105-107. 1956.—Pseudocanidia ochreosticticus, Michoa-
TRYON, ROLLA M., Jr. Selaginella rupestris and its allies.
can, Mexico.—J. L. Williams.
