lack of the appearance of the inducible 70kD Hsp 70 in the 328lmethionine
experiment.
This paper is a basis for further study of bleaching and its correlation to
associated biochemical changes in response to thermal stress in symbiotic
anemones. As stated before, the loss of endosymbionts in A. elegantissima and
its congener A. xanthogrammica in response to thermal stress has been studied
by Buchsbaum (1968) and Ö’Brien and Wyttenbach (1980). The generation of
aposymbiotic anemones within two weeks of elevated temperature stress at 31
C is interesting within the context of a threshold idea for bleaching. All algae
were expelled in response to the 31 °C heat shock, however, Buchsbaum (1968)
reports the arrival at this optimal temperature stress as the product of much
trial and error. Thermal shock at levels just below 30 °C does not result in
complete loss of algae; temperatures above 32 °C results in death. Therefore, the
complete bleaching effect is restricted to a narrow range of temperatures. The
idea of a range, or more likely a threshold, with regard to the induction of heat
shock proteins has also been made apparent in this study. It is a widely held
belief that heat shock proteins exist to protect organisms from the damaging
effects of short term environmental stress. There is abundant evidence in the
literature to support this notion (Sander, 1993). The temperature at which
induction occurs is usually near the upper portion of the organism’s natural
growth range (Lindquist, 1986; Sanders, 1993). Moreover, the acquisition of
tolerance has been shown to be correlated with the induction of Hsps (Bosch et
al., 1988; Sanders, 1991; Sharp et al 1994). There is evidence in conflict with this
idea, but the interpretation of results is complicated by the nature of Hsps in
terms of their constitutive and inducible isoforms which may or may not be
enhanced in response to different environmental stressors. The results of this
study support the idea that Hsps are not the only mediator of resistance to
