Abstract
Übiquitin is a small protein-binding protein that is found in all
eukaryotes. It displays a high degree of conservation among organisms. It is
involved in many cellular functions including DNA repair, cell cycle control,
and the stress response. One of its primary mechanisms of function is to mark
proteins for selective degradation. There are several classes of ubiquitin¬
protein ligating enzymes that are involved in the ubiquitin system, (El
ubiquitin activating enzyme, (E2) ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, and (E3
ubiquitin-protein ligase. E2's, the ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (UBC's), confer
specificity to the ubiquitin by selecting which proteins to tag with ubiquitin. In
the yeast, Saccharomyces. cerevisiae, two UBC's have been shown to be
induced by heat shock and are inviolved in the stress response. Tigriopus
californicus, a copepod abundant in the high splash pools of the California
Coast, displays an ability to tolerate wide environmental fluctuations in
temperature and salinity. Its response to thermal and osmotic stress makes it a
logical choice as an organism with which to study UBC's and their
relationship to the stress response. DNA and RNA were successfully isolated
from T. californicus. Three genes coding for ubiquitin were found. One
ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme gene was found and sequenced (ÜBCTI). The
homology between the UBCTI gene and yeast UBC4 and UBC5 is extremely
high, indicating that UBCTI expression may also be induced during heat shock
and play a role in the stress response. The groundwork for future study of UBC's
and their relationship to stress in T. californicus has been set.
Ubiquitin is a 76 residue protein binding protein that is present in all
eukaryotes. It shows an extremely high degree of conservation among
organisms with its amino acid sequence being identical between animals and
differing by only three amino acids when compared to the yeast,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae . A primary function of ubiquitin is marking
proteins for selective degradation by ubiquitin-conjugate
proteases (proteasome). Ubiquitin is involved in many cellular events
including DNA repair, cell cycle control, and the stress response (Finley and
Chau, 1991).
The ubiquitin system is very complex and consists of over forty gene
products. Among these are the enzymes of the ubiquitin-protein ligase
system. These enzymes act to bind ubiquitin to specific proteins. The El
enzymes are ubiquitin-activating enzymes that activate the C-terminus on
