to identify bacterial species, would allou a more complete picture
of early bacterial succession. This information could possibly then
be more closely correlated to subsequent larval settlement.
Slides collected on days 4 & 5 of the short term studies ad
those collected for long term effects uere concerned with counting
and identification of diatoms.
Stations 3 & 4, 20 and 30 meters distant from the outfall mouth,
generally shou the greatest number of species and individuals adsorbed
to plates, (Graphs 10-13). Comparing nutrient data (Graph 14); with the
diatom counts shous that the stations with the most diatoms also appear
to be most enriched by PO or NO». These stations are also charac¬
terized by the least tidal fluctuation. Station 6 showed what is
believed to be a "normal" grouth pattern.
The genera Navicula, Licmophora, Fragillaria and Nitzschia are
frequent inhabitants of intertidal waters and dense populations are
often indicative of organic pollution, (Golubic, 1970). Their
occurrence andhigh numbers at Stations 3 & 4 and on rocks in an
adjacent tide ponl (Fig. 1-x), suggests the possibility of utilizing
them as quantatative as well as qualitative indicators of pallution
levels. The genus Navicula has been reported to live near outfallsiand
Byldo (1970), has reported grouth in various concantrations of sewage.
Houever, Baldo also found that the genera Nitzschia and Fragillaria
appear to be more susceptible to seuage than is Navicula. Thus the
ratios of these genera in the outfall area could aid in determining
the concentrations of seuage in specific areas.
The appearance of diatomaceous films on test slides also coincided
with the appearance of flagellates, ciliates, cyanophytes and an as
yet unidentified filamentous fungi.
I feel the natural succession of early substrate colonizers (as
seen on page 5), is perhapa being aborted at this stage in the immed¬
iate outfall area. The significantly high, possiblyttoxic, detrital
cover and the lou numbers of diatoms at Station l suggest this area
to be inhospitable for invertebrate larval settlement.
From the results, I feel Station 2 to be a marginal area in regards
to natural succession. It is influenced by fluctuating sewage concen¬
trations and may also be inhospitable for settling larvae. All
other stations appear to be follouing a natural sequence of settlement
(Zoßell & Allen, 1935), with Stations 3 & 4 showing a possible acceler-
ation and enhancement dde to increased, but non-toxic nutrient levels.
Natural variation in diatom populations could explain the observed
