Introduction
The rocky headland knoun as Point Pinos, Monterey Co. Cal., re¬
ceives approximately 1.5 million gallons of primarily treated sewage
daily. Adjacent areas to the sewage outfall mouth, located inter-
tidally, are visibly deficient in fauna and flora typical of the
rocky Monterey coast.
The purpose of this six week investigation was to determine uhether
the sewage effluept affects the bacterial and diatomaceous films
knoun to produce a substratum for the metamorphosis of attached
invertebrate larvae. The importance of this early film to invertebrate
larval attachment has been debated for many. years. Most of thepprevious
microscopic work done on early stages of invertebrate settlement has
been concerned with the role of bacterial mats in fouling organism
succession studies.
The Australian worker, Uood (1949), in his work on fouling organisms,
suggested that bacteria were not necessary forthe attachment of some
species of barnacles and other foulers to submerged surfaces.
Zoßell and Allen (1935), however, felt that bacteriall and diatomaceous
slimes are not only beneficial to invertebrate larval attachment,
but that for some species this slime was also mandatory. An algal
and bacterial film has been shoun by Hinegardner (1969), to be nec¬
essary for the metamorphosis of settled sea urchins. Miller, Rapean
and Uhedon (1943), in their extensive revieu of the importance
of settlement surface preparation by bacteria, conclude that slimes
are beneficial but not required for settlement of all diatom and
invertebrate species.
The recent preliminary investigation of Golubic(1970), indicates
the importance of bacteria, diatoms, cyanophytes as en indicators of
organic pollution. In his study of nineteen Vugoslavian harbors
he has found bacterial-algal mats to persist throughout the year only
in the most heavily polluted areas. These mats consisted of a
number of species, some of uhich are directly dependent on water
that is rich in organic pollutants.
The study described here attempts to correlate variations in
micro-film formation with proximity to the Pacific Grove seuage
outfall.
