Methods and Materials
To determine uhether the seuage effluent inhibits or enhances
bacterial and diatomaceous films, six stations were established
seaward of the Pacific Grove intertidal outfall. The stations
(Fig. 1), were located approximately 10 meters apart for a total
distance of approximately 65 meters away from the outfall mouth.
Stations were chosen that were similar in terms of tidal height,
wave shock, light and spatial orientation.
Since the study was of short duration and microscopic organisns
were being investigated, I felt 2" x 2" glass lantern slides (Semon
Bache & Co., Spec. 175-356) would provide an adequate settling surface
for bacteria, diatoms and any chance maroinvertebrate larvae
settling out. Dr. Eugene Haderlie, of the U.S. Naval Post-Graduate
School, Monterey Ca., in his studies (Haderlie 1968, 1970), has
shoun the choice of settlement surface to be inconsequential.
Dak holding frames (Fig. 2), uere constructed to secure the slides in
the intertidal area. The 1/4" x 2' x 6" frames were secured to granite
boulders at the six stations, the first of which was located three
feet directly north of the outfall mouth. All frames dere secured
at the 0.O tide level and on the rock face opposite prevalent uave
direction. Holes were drilled by star drill and hammer and the frames
attached by expanding lead plugs and 2" x 1/4" lag bolts. Tuenty-
four slides for each station were boiled in nitric acid and autoclaved
at 250 F. for 15 minutes. The slides were placed in their respective
racks on April 30th. One slide from each station was recovered daily
for the follouing tuo days. These preliminary plates shoued a great
abundance of bacteria of various morphologic types. To better
characterize bacteria accumulating, the standard Gram stain test
was chosen.
After six days exposure, the slides,though appearing clean to the
unaided eye, contained a remarkable assemblage of microscopic organisns.
To follou the very early stages of microbial succession, five neu
plates were placed in the frames, and one plate removed successively
for the following five days. This phase of experiment, designated
Short Term Study 1 (5TS-1), was duplicated by Short Term Study 2
(STS-2). Plates originally placed in the frames were left for
Long Term analyses.
