Table I presents the results of direct counts in the tuo short
term studies and Table II presents the combined counts. The tun
counts were combined to reduce variations due to external factors
such as chlorine content fluctuations, exposure time, light intensity
and seasonal variation.
Graphs 1-8 present the combined bacterial counts for single spedies
in graph form shouing the grouth trends over three days and at each
station. Graph 9 shows the total counts of all bacterial "species'
and the percent increase of cells for three days. Tables I & II shou
the number of cells at Station l to be higher than at other stations
on day one. Subsequent days shou the number of cells at Stations 2-
6 to shou a higher percent increase than at Station 1.
The Long Term Studv (LIS) slides showed the bacterial populations
to remain approximately at the levels reached on the fourth day of
exposure.
Diatoms-
After four days exposurs the number of bacteria became impractical
to count.. Noticeable numbers of diatoms uere observed at the end of
four days exposure and days 4 8 5 of the short term studies uere
devoted to counting and identification of these forms.
Table III presents the results of direct diatom counts for both
Short Term and Long Term Studies.
Graphs 10-13 present the species felt to represent overall trends
in diatom populations for the various exposure times. Stations 3 & 4
appear to be enriched by the ingreased nutrient levels shoun to be
highest in adjacent areas. Graph 14 express the results of the one-
day chemical analysis carried out on May 20th.
The cryptomonad Cryptomonas sp. and the phytomonad Ochromonas sp
were noted on all slides at various times, except those collected at
Station 1. Counts of these organisms proved to be inconclusive.
A marine fungi and the cyanophyte Oscillatoria sp. Uere also numerous
but direct counts provided no observable correlations. Fig. 5 depicts
Cryptomonas sp. and Ochromonas sp. Photo 1 shous a mycelial filament
of the observed fungi. A unicellular organism tanatively identified
as a unicellular blue-green alga is shoun in Photo 2.
The sequence of succession during the course of this study was
