recorded and appears to occur in the follouing order:
lst Day- Detritus heavily adsorbed on Station 1 plates with almost
none at other stations. Numerous bacteria of many marph¬
ologic types arrive with the detritus at Station 1 with
lesser numbers and variety occurring at other stations.
2nd Day- Diatoms, including some pelagic types, begin settling and
some specimens of the unicellular blue-green algae.
Cryptomonas sp., Ochromonas sp., Uscillatoria sp. along with
3rd Day.
the filamentous fungi are found at the end of this period.
4th Day- All the above organisms uere numerous and specimens of the
red alga Erythrocladia subintegaa were found at Stations
3 and 5.
Scrapings collected from the surface of rocks adjacent to Stations
4 & 5 (Fig. 1-x), uere composed of numerous Navicula sp., Fragiillaria
sp., Nitzschia sp., Licmophora sp. and naviculoid-type diatoms.
Numerous bacteria of the 3u rod size raige tere also seen. Scrapings
collected from the wooden slide racks at Stations 1 & 3 shoued sim-
ilar numbers and species composition to those adsorbed to the glass
plates at these stations.
Discussion and Conclusions
The results of the bacterial study shou the general trand of bac-
terial populations during this month long study. Most of the species
studied are apparently introduced by the sewage effluent as evidenced
by their three day grouth patterns (Graphs 1-9). The first day of the
short term studies is characterized by higher numbers and greater
variety of morphologic types at Station 1 as seen in Table II. Day
tuo shous a slight decrease in the number of cells at almost all
stations folloued on day three by a tremendous percent rise in cell
numbers at stations auay from the outfall area (Graph 9).
Detrital adsorption showed a definite decreasing gradation away
from the outfall as was expected. The amount of detritus present at
each station over the three study days could not be correlated with
bacterial grouth.
The study plates uere subjected to fluctuations in natural en¬
vironmental parameters such as tides, sunlight etc., as well as
any fluctuations in the quality of the effluent. Replication of this
phase of the report combined with differential plating techniques
